# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Aragon <> RISC Zero - Joint partnership on crosschain voting
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/aragon-risc-zero-joint-partnership-on-crosschain-voting-4808601679474991

## Contact Info

- **Email:** rick@aragon.org
- **Telegram:** @ricktik6
- **X handle:** @ricktik6
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** ricktik6
- **Demo:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zZ1KaR8inwFWJZzDPUTkwI34x8dX0ukJ/view?usp=sharing
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 18750
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 1250
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xD6B270DFEE268B452c86251Fd7e12Db8dE9200FB
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** If the OP is not in wallet 0xD6B270DFEE268B452c86251Fd7e12Db8dE9200FB OR in the to be created paymasters contract, anymore, it has been spent.

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Groundbreaking technology means we have to put a lot of effort into making sure this is secure. Aragon OSx has gone into several public and private audits from firms like Code4rena and Halborn as well as individual reviewers. https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/audits Our goal with this build is to have it reviewed internally and by external members to ensure this fits developers needs, and once that’s done, we’ll do an audit with Halborn. Additionally, this build will require an audit on RISC Zero’s Steel, which is scheduled to start in a few months, as we go along with the build and provide them enough feedback to go live.
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** 1. Brief project description Aragon has been building DAO technology since 2017, launching the first ever DAO framework which is still used today by the likes of Lido, API3, Decentraland, and Curve. It currently secures over $35 billion in TVL. Last year the Aragon X team launched a new DAO framework and front-end from the learnings of DAOs on older tech-stacks attempting to democratize access to building custom and complex governance systems of onchain organizations and for other projects to be able to reuse these builds more safely and easily. RISC Zero was started in 2021 to tackle the biggest challenge to our industry, and potentially our society – increased centralization and consolidation of not just the applications we use but the infrastructure we use to build and manage them. By launching the first general purpose zkVM projects can now lower development costs and get to market more efficiently. Aragon and RISC Zero are partnering up to take cross-chain voting to the next level by producing a solution that is trust-minimized relying on no third parties, is scalable and compatible with more token standards beyond ERC20votes, and secure, requiring no bridging. Aragon has spent the past year developing a more trusted multichain voting solution with LayerZero. However, the goal has always been to develop a plugin to increase voter participation across chains in the most secure and trustless way, the partnership between RISC Zero and Aragon will make this a reality. We believe this solution is one that truly benefits the entirety of the Ethereum ecosystem, and by entrusting two of the most successful projects in web3 in their respective domains, has the highest potential to succeed. Proposed appraoch The proposed approach focuses on solving the trustlessnes of existing crosschain solutions that make heavy use of bridges, while unlocking a new set of features that couldn’t be done before without a chain that scales and a proving system that’s flexible enough to fit different voting strategies inside. Thanks to using RISC Zero’s zkVM, we can build a Voting Protocol that fits different hooks inside, letting projects select their delegation strategies, census building mechanism and different ways to calculate their voting power. The possibilities of such a system have never been seen before at scale and we can’t wait to see what the Optimism community does with it. 2. Success potential Aragon is uniquely positioned to address the needs of DAOs due to our extensive experience and proven track record in the development of onchain governance tooling over the past 7+ years. By supporting leading projects like Lido and Curve and now Polygon, we have built a strong brand and deep understanding of the web3 onchain governance ecosystem. Aragon have spent the past year working on a more trusted multichain voting plugin with LayerZero, the first iteration was launched in November 2023 which at the time was a first in the industry. V2 is ready to launch in the coming weeks and the current version that Aragon already built and deployed on multiple chains, can be found here . With this experience, we are now ready to move on to the next step which is building a more trustless, decentralized, and effective solution. RISC Zero are positioned to provide the most advanced storage proof technology needed for this build. This will be done using their first general purpose zkVM with the addition of Steel , ​​the Alloy-based library that allows developers to execute view calls and provably read and compute over Ethereum’s state in a scalable, secure, and economically efficient manner. 3. Mission alignment Aragon builds full stack DAO technology, enabling organizations to govern their protocols and assets onchain. This means organisations can truly operate in a trustless way, allowing users actual ownership over the protocols and tools they use every day. As Aragon is driven by a WAGMI and decentralization ethos, we love to lead by example by partnering up with closely aligned teams to contribute to the public good. An example is the partnership with Dappnode, where we've introduced a new initiative, TeamStaking. Through this initiative, we contribute to the decentralization of Ethereum and Optimism by running nodes as a team. More information here RISC Zero is committed to building innovative Open Source ZK solutions as a direct response to centralization and consolidation of applications we use and the infrastructure used to build and manage them, by bringing general purpose computing to the zero knowledge ecosystem then are enabling users to trust programs from anywhere while allowing developers the tools they already know and love 4. Novelty This will be the first multichain voting plugin using zkProofs to allow for voting across chains, even for tokens that don’t directly support any sort of voting standard (such as minime or ERC20Votes). Previous tech forced users to bridge their tokens or have them spread across different bridges, resulting in dangerous situations for users. By harnessing the power of ZK technology, we’ll be able to reduce the critical pieces of the build and allow users themselves to vote directly without having to touch their assets.
That means you can have your tokens staked at a protocol, in a remote ledger or simply held in your EOA, you’ll still be able to use them for participating in governance. 5. Open source and free to use Everything Aragon and RISC Zero has built, including this project, is already open source. Aragon does not charge its users. This means that users can create their DAOs, add plugins, and execute actions within the DAO for free (only gas fees apply as it is onchain). 6. Composability with other projects on OP This cross-chain voting module is designed to be highly modular and adaptable. This allows other projects on Optimism to easily integrate with it or build on top of it. And thanks to Optimism’s ground-breaking work adopting EIP-4844 blobs into the OP blocks, we’ll be able to remove any trusted component and directly use Ethereum’s merkelized roots.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors Aragon faces competition from governance platforms such as Tally (onchain governance) and Snapshot (offchain governance). But until now, no other project has successfully developed a system that allows crosschain voting without an unreasonable number of hidden caveats. Aragon’s Advantages Fully Open Source : Aragon is completely open source Unique modular stack : Aragon built the industry's first modular stack that allows for the reuse of governance plugins. That means any project can use this plugin by simply installing it into their DAO; no costs, no audits (as the plugin will be already audited by Halborn), no forking. It will be part of a governance marketplace available for all to use or build on top of. Efficiency and Security : Audited plugins provide trust and resource savings Upgradeability: DAOs can evolve while maintaining secure asset and governance processes. Fully onchain: Aragon's system embeds actions directly into proposals, eliminating the need for offchain setups. Progressive Decentralization : allowing users to evolve over time and progressively decentarlize RISC Zero's advantages Write Programs, Not Circuits: Compatible with over 70% of the top 1000 Rust crates, so you can build your prototype fast without knowing cryptography or circuits. Extensible, Upgradable: Leverage typical software development cycles to easily iterate and upgrade your ZK application. Fully Open Source: We are building fully in the open, so you can develop with software that is growing with the broader community. Easily Auditable: Apps built with RISC Zero use existing computer standards, making them easily auditable by third parties and secure. Advantages of this build Trustless : By allowing users themselves to upload the proofs of holding their assets, we are removing the most critical piece of the stack in all crypto applications, the bridge; and giving that power back to whom it pertains. Secure - there is no need to bridge to vote; removing barriers of use, risks associated with bridging, and eliminating fragmented token liquidity. Token standard agnostic - with this solution you no longer require an ERC20Votes token, a large pain point for most DAOs who are unable to perform onchain governance after they have launched. Increased voter participation through gasless voting - by adding paymasters in the UI, such as Coinbase Wallet, similar to the implementation that we currently have with zkSync, users can vote for free, greatly increasing voter participation Proven teams - to date Aragon has proven its capability to build onchain and cross-chain voting implementations

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Aragon’s target audience DAO Builders : DAOs aiming to utilize trustless and onchain decentralized governance to manage their assets and protocols across chains. DAO Users (Governance Participants): End-users interacting with DAOs and onchain governance setups. Ensuring an easy-to-use, gasless, and secure experience. Both increasing voter participation and decreasing risk. Boost user interaction on OP We are boosting user interaction for those DAOs who can’t participate in onchain governance due to their token not being compatible, effectively moving them from offchain governance to onchain governance. Additionally, all those DAOs who are struggling with participation will benefit, since we’d be lowering voting costs to a point where they could be even subsidized via paymaster, making them gasless. The Multichain voting plugin will be compatible with any EVM-compatible chain, including the Superchain. This broadens our target audience to include all protocols, greatly enhancing our reach and impact. Steps to increase user interaction Target audience characteristics User interaction with Optimism Competitors on Optimism The plugin will be reusable by any DAO by simply installing it into their DAO on Aragon from the Plugin Repository. Team commitment Given the rapid changes in the governance space, both Aragon and RISC Zero are dedicated to maintaining and implementing necessary upgrades for this cross-chain solution for at least two years after deployment.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** multisig address to receive OP - 0xD6B270DFEE268B452c86251Fd7e12Db8dE9200FB Paymaster address to pay for the fees  - TBD

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 1 Gov Participation) # of addresses voting for the first time
- **Fill out your metric objective:** # of addresses that vote for the first time has been increased with 1k (that would mean a 10% increase)

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** We have our R&D team working on the cross-chain voting plugin. We aim to use this grant to allow the team to focus on the plugin and to subsidize onchain interactions for as long as possible. We are dedicated to advancing Aragon's mission by continuously improving onchain governance tools and making them more accessible to the public. Proposed new features using the OP Grant Remove the need to bridge to vote; reducing a poor UX, removing risks associated with bridging, and eliminating fragmented liquidity. Allow any type of token to vote, especially those not following the ERC20Votes standard. This is a giant industry pain point where currently most projects only using ERC20 without the votes standard are incapable of governing onchain. Democratizing onchain voting to the entire industry. Preserve delegation when bridging across chains. As currently this is lost when a token holder bridgers from one chain to another. Increasing voter participation and decreasing lost delegations. Automate the dispatch of votes from the voting chain as it currently needs to be executed, meaning there is a risk that votes are not bridged before a vote ends. Enable gasless voting by adding paymasters in the UI, such as Coinbase Wallet, similar to the implementation that we currently have with zkSync, so users' votes are free. To develop the features mentioned, we're requesting 37.5k OP tokens to fund the development teams. Given the innovative and complex nature of this solution, costs are likely to exceed this amount. Aragon is therefore committed to covering any additional budget needed. Additionally, the requested 2.5k OP tokens will be used to incentivize users and DAOs to adopt the crosschain solution by offering refunds as incentives.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** With this solution, we aim to seamlessly integrate multichain functionality, allowing users to benefit from both the economic security of highly liquid chains and being able to manage their protocol and treasury in a cost-efficient way without having to choose between them. This solution provides the projects built on it to interact and manage their DAOs across 70+ other chains. Aragon also launched it's DAO framework on Base and we're working with Mode on governance. This shows that we are deeply committed to building on the OP stack. This grant will accelerate our progress and support these deployments!

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** -
- **Contributions from non-team members:** -

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Locked 1 year', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Not Completed', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Locked 1 year', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 25', 'cycle': 'Not Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 25', 'op_tokens_request': 'Not Completed', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Locked 1 year', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Not Completed', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Locked 1 year', 'completed': 'Cycle 25', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Locked 1 year', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Not Completed', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Locked 1 year', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 25', 'cycle': 'Not Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 25', 'op_tokens_request': 'Not Completed', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Locked 1 year', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Not Completed', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Locked 1 year', 'completed': 'Cycle 25', 'title': 'Architectural work on the Voting Protocol on top of  RISC Zero’s zkVM Program (3 weeks)', 'source_of_truth': 'The github repo will be created and the CI/CD will be set for some basic programs and tests for the RISC Zero machine.', 'op_amount': '7500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Aug 19', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
