# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Beefy - mooBIFI
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/beefy-moobifi-6114661844871652

## Contact Info

- **Email:** gpms@beefy.com
- **Telegram:** GPMS1 / iamjackgale
- **X handle:** GPMSL / iamjackgale
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** beefyfinance
- **Demo:** https://app.Beefy.com
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 70000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0x4ABa01FB8E1f6BFE80c56Deb367f19F35Df0f4aE
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** If the OP tokens are not in the recipient address, they have been spent.

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Beefy’s codebase has undergone several audits for the project since its inception in 2020, including four audits for our latest CLM product. You can find all of our audits in our Github audits repo .
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: Beefy is The Trusted Yield Optimizer that helps users to safely and securely autocompound yields on their crypto. Beefy's cutting-edge web app delivers hundreds of DeFi yield opportunities from dozens of chains in a single, easy-to-use service. Beefy handles the hard work of yield farming for you, saving you time, gas, and delivering superior yields by aggregating scale with other users. Every Beefy product directs around a third of fees collected immediately back to our BIFI token holders, in the form of our governance incentive programs. All fees are automatically bridged back to Ethereum and paid into our “governance pools” When BIFI tokens are deposited into these governance pools, they produce a receipt token which accrues rewards automatically overtime. One of these pools automatically reinvests the rewards into more BIFI, meaning the receipt token (called mooBIFI). is a yield-bearing asset. mooBIFI has been deployed on the Optimism (OP) network, where the vast majority of activity among small-to-medium sized holders takes place. mooBIFI can be traded on various V2 and V3 pools on Velodrome. The low transaction costs on the OP network further enhance the efficiency and accessibility to Beefy’s governance processes and fee sharing mechanisms. Success potential: As of now, Beefy is the #1 yield optimizer across the DeFi landscape and also holds the top position on the Optimism network with over $21.6M in TVL. This success is due to Beefy’s advanced, user-friendly autocompounding vaults and the effective implementation of the CLM. With its robust foundation and strategic focus, Beefy is well-positioned to continue leading the space and maximizing returns for its users. mooBIFI allows users to earn rewards through the accumulation of underlying BIFI tokens, driving further engagement and growth. We encourage users to trade and acquire BIFI through mooBIFI, leveraging the low gas costs on the Optimism network and the deeper liquidity available for trading. This combination ensures optimal performance and greater accessibility for all users. Mission alignment: This mission is grounded in intent 3 - aiming to grow the quantity and quality of application developers on the Superchain. We see the migration of BIFI governance tokens and activity to OP Mainnet as furthering this core mission in a few ways: First, a growing concentration of BIFI on OP Mainnet should correlate to a growing concentration of assets belonging to Beefy’s own internal and external contributors on the chain, including items like vested contributor funding. This will ensuring strong and sustained direct interest in OP Mainnet and the wider Optimism ecosystem from our contributors; Second, for non-contributor tokenholders, a growing concentration of BIFI activity and holdings on OP Mainnet will also correlate with growing exposure from our community to OP Mainnet, and vested interests in its success. We expect our voting population will continue to be increasingly interested in new developer initiatives, developing new utility and supporting development activities on OP Mainnet where more and more BIFI is held on the chain; Finally, concentrating BIFI on OP Mainnet makes the chain the obvious choice for external developers to build new applications and utility around the token. A good example of this is the Silo OP Mainnet vaults discussed in this proposal, which are only viable due to the already significant amount of BIFI on the chain. We hope that many more use cases will flow as OP Mainnet becomes the de facto place to hold and use BIFI. The mission itself is aimed at making Optimism the dominant venue for trading and creating yield-bearing assets. The above reasons make clear that a growing concentration of BIFI interests on the chain will increase the nominal value of yield-bearing assets on the chain, and likely as a knock-on effect the amount of trading volume in Beefy. Novelty: Beefy is unlike any other Optimism ecosystem project due to the breadth of our coverage. We host 135 different live products on OP Mainnet built on top of 8 other protocols, and have produced over 280 products in the course of our time on the chain. For a long time, OP Mainnet was our largest chain by TVL, though much of this TVL is now shared with sister chain Base. Even so, our natively-crosschain user base unites 30 different chains and their communities, meaning Beefy brings unique levels of exposure across the wider EVM universe. For OP Mainnet specifically, Beefy is uniquely positioned due to the amount of governance-related activities that take place through the chain. In October 2023, a distribution to all current tokenholders revealed that over 95% of holder wallets holding BIFI tokens did so on OP Mainnet, due to the smaller size of their holdings and the ease of access (when compared with Ethereum, where our token is natively deployed). This means that, when our community comes together to vote on key decisions and partnerships, the vast majority do so from positions held on OP Mainnet. With that said, the majority of the value in the BIFI token is still held on Ethereum. With this proposal, our secondary aim (beyond making Optimism the dominant venue for trading and creating yield-bearing assets) is to attract more of our governance tokens over to Optimism from Ethereum, to share in our governance incentives and increase activity and dispersion. Our proposal is novel because we define a narrow and easily targetable source of assets (BIFI tokens held on Ethereum, totalling c. $15.2m at the time of this application) and propose a simple and effective route to bring this liquidity over to Optimism in the form of yield-bearing tokens. We believe this will obviously benefit Optimism and OP Mainnet, Beefy and the holders of the targeted assets, in a classic win-win-win scenario. Will the project be open source? All of Beefy Codebase is fully open source. The contracts and code can all be found on Beefy’s Github organization page. Free or fee-based for end users? Beefy does not charge fees for users of our governance pools and holders of the mooBIFI token. Though performance fees are charged on other Beefy products (including products building on top of mooBIFI), fees are only applied to the yield generated on the platform. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Beefy has already demonstrated its composability as a yield optimizer on Optimism by integrating with protocols such as Velodrome, Uniswap, Silo, and others.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and differentiation Beefy is the top yield optimizer on the OP network, with its closest competitor being Yearn Finance. However, Beefy stands out by uniquely offering mooBIFI, a yield-bearing asset that accrues rewards directly from Beefy's platform fees. This feature solidifies Beefy's position as the leading yield optimizer on OP but also makes it the only platform that provides an efficient way to accumulate rewards through a yield-bearing, tradeable token like mooBIFI. Current user base and estimation method There are currently 14,805 mooBIFIs held by 14,757 holders (including LP pools) on Optimism, with an on-chain market cap of $4.35 million. Per OP scan

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to increase user interaction Beefy plans to enhance the yield on mooBIFI liquidity by incentivizing current V2 and V3 pools on Velodrome, aiming to increase mooBIFI's liquidity and offer more attractive yields for users. Additionally, Beefy will incentivize the lending market in partnership with SILO, a long-standing and reliable partner with Beefy. With SILO's available OP markets, a new avenue for benefiting from mooBIFI will be introduced. Target audience characteristics The target audience includes liquidity providers and mooBIFI holders on the OP/ETH network User interaction with Optimism With the outlined plans, users will have increased interaction with OP protocols, thereby attracting more use cases and bringing greater benefits to the chain. This will make Optimism more appealing to users who are bridging mooBIFI from Ethereum to Optimism. Competitors on Optimism: Beefy’s main competitors in the automated liquidity management space (for our CLM products) include Gamma, Steer, and Arrakis. Among these, Gamma is the most notable with $1M in TVL, a milestone Beefy has already surpassed, Beefy CLM holds $3.18M USD. In the yield aggregation/optimization space (for our classic products), competitors include Idle Finance and YFI, with Yearn being the most notable at $4.99M TVL. Beefy, on the other hand, holds a substantial $18M USD TVL, positioning Beefy as the number 1 yield optimiser on OP network.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** Beefy OP Multisig: 0x4aba01fb8e1f6bfe80c56deb367f19f35df0f4ae mooBIFI: 0xc55E93C62874D8100dBd2DfE307EDc1036ad5434

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol
- **Fill out your metric objective:** Aim to bridge from Ethereum a TVL of approximately $4.1M USD, consisting of 13,500 BIFI tokens, and assist in establishing Optimism’s position as the go-to ecosystem for yield-bearing assets.

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of request and justification We're requesting 70k OP tokens (around $100k USD at the time of writing), which represents 7% of the total mission funding (1m OP tokens). This aligns with the TVL Beefy is ready to bring to the OP chain, consisting of 13,500 BIFI tokens, equivalent to $4.1m USD. Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap) Liquidity Incentives: mooBIFI has around $940k in liquidity across various V2 and V3 pools on Velodrome. We're planning to deepen this liquidity by incentivizing these pools, which will attract more liquidity providers. Integration into Lending Markets: Beefy will work with our long-standing partner, SILO, to create a mooBIFI isolated lending market. With planned incentives, we expect rapid adoption and increased usage of mooBIFI, making it even more attractive to investors. OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives) 40-100%: Liquidity incentives for V2-V3 existing pools on Velodrome. This portion of the funding will be used to deepen liquidity in our current pools, ensuring they remain attractive for liquidity providers 0-60%: Lending markets incentives to encourage users/investors into the utilization of moobifi. This will be allocated to driving adoption in our mooBIFI isolated lending markets, in collaboration with SILO designed to attract borrowers and lenders. Token distribution timeline Beefy will implement a 6-month timeline for this initiative, distributing the 70k OP tokens at a rate of 11,666.66 tokens per month. These tokens will be strategically allocated across the previously explained initiatives, ensuring consistent support for liquidity incentives and lending market growth throughout the duration of the program Sustainability post-incentives After the 6-month incentive period, Beefy is committed to maintaining the momentum. For Velodrome’s liquidity pools, we’re focused on sustaining strong liquidity through organic growth, other initiatives, and highlighting mooBIFI’s value. On the lending side, we expect that the initial incentives will have laid a solid foundation, with adoption driving a self-sustaining market. As demand for lending and borrowing grows, natural market dynamics will keep things moving.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** ahaProblem solved for Optimism We aim to help solve the supply-side issue of application developers active on OP Mainnet by increasing the degree of focus and activity that Beefy’s operations (and those of our partners and co-buildings) have on the Optimism ecosystem with the BIFI token. By drawing more of our governance token and supporting activities to OP Mainnet, we will consolidate our existing base on Optimism with more of the tokens present in other ecosystems, to create an even stronger ecosystem of application developers and development initiatives all centered on OP Mainnet. We feel that this firmly aligns with the intent for this season, whilst at the same time drawing more yield-bearing assets (i.e. our mooBIFI token) into the Optimism ecosystem. Value proposition Beefy has a natively cross-chain community. Our users are familiar with and passionate about Optimism, but are ultimately fragmented across the many ecosystems that Beefy has participated in. We believe that by aiming to consolidate the fragmented $BIFI governance tokens into a base on OP Mainnet as staked mooBIFI, we will not only increase the TVL of yield-bearing assets on OP Mainnet, but also consolidate both our own community and outside developers who use our products on the chain. This presents significant value for both Optimism and Beefy, as our already substantial presence on OP Mainnet can further expand and operate more efficiently together in a single, focused ecosystem. Growth potential for Optimism We have evaluated the potential for growth across Optimism throughout this application. In summary, we believe that we can attract c. 13,500 BIFI tokens (c. 12,600 mooBIFI tokens, or $4.1 million of TVL at the time of writing) to migrate to OP Mainnet over the course of 6 months, reflecting over 5% of the total goal for this mission. This is a reasonable estimate, reflecting half of the outstanding BIFI staked with Beefy outside of OP Mainnet. It may be possible to reach as far as double this value or more, although it is difficult to assess how much of this liquidity may be likely to switch, so a more conservative estimate has been provided. Commitment to building on Optimism The effort to consolidate outstanding BIFI tokens remaining outside OP Mainnet reflects our team and community’s dedication to Optimism and the Superchain. Since the relaunch of our token in October 2023, Optimism has been the home of most DeFi activities and small-to-medium-sized users of the BIFI token. Our goal with this grant is not just to continue building on Optimism ourselves, but to explore new initiatives to expand building opportunities relating to the BIFI tokens across the Optimisms ecosystem. Deployment status Beefy deployed on Optimism on 27 June 2022. It’s currently deployed on 29 networks, with Ethereum, Optimism and Base among its largest and most consistent.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** no
- **Contributions from non-team members:** no

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': 'Incentivize for more robust liquidity on Optimism network', 'source_of_truth': 'OP / Dune dashboard', 'op_amount': 'OP scan / Dune dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 27', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Incentivize for more robust liquidity on Optimism network', 'source_of_truth': 'OP / Dune dashboard', 'op_amount': 'OP scan / Dune dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': 'Incentivize for more robust liquidity on Optimism network', 'source_of_truth': 'OP / Dune dashboard', 'op_amount': 'OP scan / Dune dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 27', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Incentivize for more robust liquidity on Optimism network', 'source_of_truth': 'OP / Dune dashboard', 'op_amount': 'OP scan / Dune dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
