# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Boosting LRT adoption with Compound Finance
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/boosting-lrt-adoption-with-compound-finance-4302288148086588

## Contact Info

- **Email:** shardul@alphagrowth.io
- **Telegram:** Shardul@alphagrowth.io, Telegram: sharpweb3
- **X handle:** https://x.com/ShardulPilley
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** N/A
- **Demo:** https://app.compound.finance/?market=usdc-op
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 120000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xcb54808F5ef6FD88b933C55Dd4f4c365E61828bB
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** When OP is withdrawn from the Compound Growth Program multisig

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Yes, there are multiple audits from Reputable auditors for Compound There are a total of 9 audits for Compound by OpenZeppelin and Trail of Bits. Please refer to the audits here We have also listed out the audits here Trail of Bits 2019 OpenZeppelin - August 2019 Trail of bits - August 2019 OpenZeppelin: Timelock and pause Guardian OpenZeppelin: cDAI OpenZeppelin: COMP and Governance Trail of Bits: 2020 OpenZeppelin Tether Openzeppelin COMP distribution Additionally, Audit updates are mentioned here: https://www.comp.xyz/tag/audit
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Compound is the Oldest DeFi protocol in the industry, with around $2.5Bn in TVL. Compound is an EVM-compatible protocol that enables the supplying of crypto assets as collateral in order to borrow the base asset. Accounts can also earn interest by supplying the base asset to the protocol. The protocol is helping users of LRT assets and yield bearing tokens in getting the best out of their assets. Currently Compound has a majority of the top LRT assets listed as collaterals. With the Optimism mission to be the home for LRTs in L2, the utility offered by Compound for LRT assets is key in making this adoption permanent. Success Potential Compound is the oldest Defi protocol in Web3. This has created a battle tested infrastructure that is known to be successful. Compound already has immense market demand on Ethereum mainnet with more than $1Billion of assets locked on Compound mainnet. Lending protocols form one of the core pillars of Defi, Compound being a household name for Defi veterans and beginners alike becomes the preferred choice of traders to make use of their idle assets. Compound being a truly decentralized organization is run by multiple reputed teams to ensure success to the Protocol. Gauntlet is the Risk management team for Compound, OpenZeppelin provides Security and AlphaGrowth leads the Growth for the protocol.
Over the past 3 months, Compound Community has deployed the protocol to the Optimism ecosystem and the protocol has already reached the list of top 10 defi protocols on Optimism. Mission Alignment Compound has been prioritizing the addition of LRT assets as collaterals. In this direction we have already added weETH (Ether.fi) and are working to add ezETH (Renzo) and rsETH (kelp) in our lending pools on Optimism. While the LRT protocols are growing on Optimism, their utility and success will be limited without an avenue for utilization of the LRT assets. The ability to borrow popular assets like ETH, USDC by using LRTs as collateral goes a long way to add utility to these assets. Which further contributes to the Restaking mechanisms, which are key to the success of the LRT protocols. Novelty Compound is a pioneer in Defi Lending. The latest version of Compound, Compound III is one step ahead in Defi novelty. Compound III utilizes the technology of separate markets for assets, called Comets. These comets, unlike the existing double asset supply/borrow earning, focus on the base asset for supply and earn. This makes Compound Markets more capital efficient compared to the competition. This also ensures that Compound markets are not cannibalistic among themselves, ultimately ensuring its long term success within the ecosystem. OpenSource Yes the Project is fully open source. You can find more details here : https://github.com/compound-finance Free or fee-based for end users? Compound is completely free for use by users. Anyone with an internet connection and a functioning browser on device can access the Compound app without any paywall. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? The success of Compound in Optimism ultimately depends on the success of other projects in Optimism, similarly Compound contributes to the success of projects within the ecosystem. For example, in terms of asset issuers, the more popular an asset is on Optimism, the higher its usage will be on Compound, alternatively Compound is one of the first avenues of adoption of many of the LRT assets. LRT projects can directly integrate in Compound and benefit from its brand and widespread usage. For other DeFi protocols and structured products, Compound pools create a base infrastructure on which structured products can be built. Top Dapps like Instadapp, Cian, Sommelier utilize Compound pools. Talks are in progress to integrate with more Dapps within the Optimism ecosystem.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Current Competitors for Compound include all the Lending protocols on Optimism. Some of these include Aave, Silo and Exactly. Compound’s battle tested infrastructure, reliability and ease of use makes it the preferred choice for Defi users. Moreover, the ability of Compound to bring mainstream Dapps from Mainnet to OP for integration makes it an ideal partner within the OP ecosystem. Currently, Compound has more than 3500 active users on the Optimism Markets, and as many as 6000 active users in the last few months. The user base estimation is referenced from Gauntlet statistics. Currently the USDC market is the most popular market for Compound on Optimism with 3500 active wallets. Here is the link to data source Two more markets USDT and ETH have been recently deployed and are slowly gaining traction within the community. The user base for these markets is still in the nascent stages and expanding.

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** The Grant will serve two purposes Increase the borrowability of LRT assets by incentivizing lending to increase the supply of base assets. Incentivize borrowing of LRTs by directly lowering the Borrow APRs on LRT assets on Compound Markets Both purposes when balanced create high utilization on the Compound markets. Ideally Half of the Grant will be utilized to boost Compound’s ETH market on Optimism. Compound is already incentivizing this market with COMP tokens. The addition of OP rewards will create additional incentives to supply base assets to the market, which will lower the borrow rate for LRT users using for staking purposes. The end goal is to increase the supply of ETH that can be used by LRT users. For distribution of the supply side incentives, Compound will partner with OP ecosystem projects like dHedge, Cian, Layer3, Vaultcraft, OKX Defi, Crypto.com defi wallet to boost the supplies for LRT users. The actual execution strategy of the partner distribution depends on the supply capability of the partner at the given time, so it cannot be predicted in advance. For borrow side incentives, the OP grant will be directly used to reward Users who supply LRT assets for the purpose of restaking. This will effectively reduce the borrow APR of base asset on Optimism compared to the same base asset on Mainnet for Compound. Prompting users to use the restaking strategies more on Optimism compared to Mainnet. We expect this to drive users and capital from Mainnet to Optimism. Target Audience LRT Restaking users Structured Products General Defi Users LRT Restaking Users Primary users intended to benefit from the Grant. These users coincide with the userbase of LRT protocols like Renzo (ezETH), Ether.fi (weETH), KelpDAO (rsETH), Stakewise (osETH) and more. Structured Products and their users Many users use looping strategies through structured products like Cian, Vaultcraft. This maximizes their returns. Compound is privileged to have integrations with most of the structured products within the LRT space. General Defi Users
Defi users set the stage for restaking amplification on Compound by supplying base asset (ETH) and keeping the borrow rates down in order to make restaking profitable
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** Compound Markets on Optimism USDC: Contract Link ETH: Contract Link USDT: Contract Link Grant Multisig: oeth:0xcb54808F5ef6FD88b933C55Dd4f4c365E61828bB Possible deployment contracts and addresses: Please note, depending on the partner contract status, the contract addresses may change OKX Defi: 0xcb54808F5ef6FD88b933C55Dd4f4c365E61828bB Vaultcraft: 0xc9aD14cefb29506534a973F7E0E97e68eCe4fa3f

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol
- **Fill out your metric objective:** TVL growth by  $6000000

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** The budget size is based on the past experience with Grants. In general incentives above $50K make a sizeable impact on Compound Markets. Since this grant will serve 2 purposes - Supply side incentivizations and borrow side incentivizations, we believe the request of 120000 OP is reasonably tailored to give performance. In ideal circumstances, the Grant will be divided in two equal parts to incentivise supply and demand of ETH market to create optimum conditions for restaking, with the scales slightly tipped towards supply to create natural conditions for low borrowing APR. But in case either borrowing or supply becomes a dominant part of the market dynamics as it happens with incentivized markets, we will improvise the strategy to boost accordingly. Token Distribution timeline Compound’s incentive distribution has historically followed the pattern of entire grant distribution period divided into multiple two-week windows. This helps us to give enough time to focus on performing strategies but still make changes and adjust strategies accordingly after every biweekly distribution. We aim to distribute the grant over a period of 8 weeks, divided into 4 biweekly periods. Sustainability post-incentives A big part of our grants push will be distributing the incentives through structured products like vaults and strategies. Historically, structured products have provided the stickiest TVL on Compound. Additionally this also scales to 10s of millions of dollars compared to individual users on Compound who will also be incentivized through native rewards of Compound. Additional accountability info (smart contract addresses, wallet addresses, etc.): The Compound Growth Program is directly accountable to the Compound DAO for any usage of funds. All of the fund interactions happen with publicly verifiable SAFE multisig.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Compound’s lending pools provide a trusted avenue for individual users and institutional investors alike to earn interest on their otherwise idle assets. Compound itself is a profitable protocol with last year’s revenue at around $6.5 Million, mostly on Ethereum Mainnet. Compound’s markets provide an excellent opportunity for users of mainstream assets like USDT, USDC, ETH to deposit their assets. Interestingly, these assets are the dominating assets on Ethereum Mainnet, so having an avenue for earning interest on these on Optimism opens a direct path to transfer Compound’s mainnet liquidity to Optimism. Compound DAO and the Compound growth program have been committed to make the protocol a success on Optimism. To ensure success, Compound DAO has also committed a part of its COMP treasury to be deployed as user incentives for OP users. Currently we have deployed 3 markets on Optimism, we aim to keep building new collateral integrations and add more structured products to make Compound a well connected Dapp within the Optimism Ecosystem. Compound is primarily deployed on Ethereum Mainnet with USDC market as a base market. Beyond that Compound is deployed to L2s such as Base, Polygon, Arbitrum, Scroll.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** Compound Growth Program (Managed by AlphaGrowth) is responsible for grant application and distribution. The expenses of the Growth program and all the charges are borne by the Compound treasury, 100% of the grant will be used for user incentivization.
- **Contributions from non-team members:** No

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 26', 'cycle': 'Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Adding First LRT Collateral', 'source_of_truth': 'Governance Vote', 'op_amount': 'Governance Vote', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 26', 'op_tokens_request': 'Completed', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 26', 'title': 'Adding First LRT Collateral', 'source_of_truth': 'Governance Vote', 'op_amount': 'Governance Vote', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Completed', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 26', 'completed': 'Completed', 'title': 'Adding First LRT Collateral', 'source_of_truth': 'Governance Vote', 'op_amount': 'Governance Vote', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 26', 'cycle': 'Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Adding First LRT Collateral', 'source_of_truth': 'Governance Vote', 'op_amount': 'Governance Vote', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
