# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** DelegateMatch: Governance incentives for a delegation Farcaster frame.
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/delegatematch-governance-incentives-for-a-delegation-farcaster-frame-7247453561607329

## Contact Info

- **Email:** cotabemoral@gmail.com
- **Telegram:** @Cotabe
- **X handle:** @Cotabe_M
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** N/A
- **Demo:** https://www.loom.com/share/0b7b27de54f8458cad276a47175c66b6?sid=425048e0-6712-4331-a4c2-400b62780435
- **Other:** https://delegatematch.xyz/

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 2500
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xE40714459D9493994BE025F04afc38D2BCF42f8E
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** if the OP is not in the wallets  0xE40714459D9493994BE025F04afc38D2BCF42f8E  it has been spent

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** This project has no smart contracts; therefore, no audit is needed.
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: Delegate Match is a Farcaster frame designed to help users find an Optimism Delegate who aligns with their vision and values. This project is still in its early stages, having been conceived in July and launched at the end of August. We are asking for a Microgrant to incentivize OP holders to delegate or redelegate to active delegates and grow the OP votable supply. This will help us gain insights into improving the delegate match for V2. We aim to: Increase total OP delegation : Work towards boosting the total OP delegation to active delegates to help reach the goal of 10% of OP  delegated as a votable supply. Simplify the delegation process : Make it as easy as possible for OP holders to delegate their tokens to someone who matches their values, even if they are not deeply involved in Optimism governance. Level the playing field : Ensure that underrepresented delegates have the opportunity to grow their delegations based on their voting record and governance alignment rather than just popularity. Key links: Optimism forum post to get insights from the community: https://gov.optimism.io/t/request-for-feedback-building-a-farcaster-frame-as-a-governance-tool-to-facilitate-matchmaking-between-op-holders-and-delegates/8557 Delegate Match Farcaster Frame: https://warpcast.com/delegatematch/0xfca020d4 Website: https://delegatematch.xyz/ Success potential: (Explain why your project is likely to succeed. Consider market demand, technical feasibility, and your team's ability to execute) We believe this project can be very successful for the following reasons. Farcaster is arguably the best tool to give exposure to projects and tools; It has about 650 K registered users and 60-100K Daily Active Users (DAUs). Simplicity: Users can find the most aligned delegates in less than 5 minutes by answering 11 simple multiple-choice questions. In just two weeks, the Delegate Match has been tried by at least 43 users without any incentives. It has attracted the attention of key stakeholders in Optimism with whom we are interested in collaborating, such as govnerds and foundation members. See the comments on our forum post (https://gov.optimism.io/t/request-for-feedback-building-a-farcaster-frame-as-a-governance-tool-to-facilitate-matchmaking-between-op-holders-and-delegates/8557) We are building our incentive programs aligned to the collective intelligence and feedback provided in this forum post https://gov.optimism.io/t/can-incentives-be-a-good-mechanism-to-improve-optimism-governance/8386, mitigating the risks of faulty design. We will use Unitap to host the incentive program. They have 20K+ users already and free tooling to run a Sybil resistance incentive program for Optimism governance. Furthermore, their incentive programs have had hundreds to thousands of users. Mission alignment: (Describe how your project aligns with the goals of the mission request you are applying for.) We are open to collaborating with other builders or they can use our open source code to build other matchmaking tools for delegates and delegators for Optimism or Optimism DAOs. However, this experiment is more aligned with the Optimism collective goal of increasing the votable supply to 100 million OP. We have been building on the open; everything is open-sourced, and we have been requesting feedback and sharing all major updates on the Optimism Forum. Novelty: (Highlight what makes your project unique or innovative.) We are combining the high exposure of Farcaster with a simple UX to delegate and redelegate OP, the reputation building capacities of the Ethereum Attestation Service and the effectiveness of incentive programs to help increase the voting supply of OP. Will the project be open source? Yes, our GitHub repo is open-source. ( https://github.com/wtfsayo/delegate-match/) Free or fee-based for end users? Free Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Yes, it’s built on top of Farcaster and the Ethereum Attestation Service. A future feature is integrating with Agora and delegating through the frame and/or the Dapp.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and differentiation: This project is a network good for Optimism. We take no fees, and therefore, we don’t see other initiatives to increase the votable supply of Optimism, like Agora and the Governance Dashboard, as competition but rather as partners. We are currently funneling delegators to Agora. In any case, our main differentiators are using Farcaster as a distribution channel and our matchmaking algorithm to help users find delegates that match their values and views. Current user base and estimation method We have about 43 users so far. An attestation is created every time a user answers one of the eleven questions. There are 473 attestations if we divide them by the number of questions (11). The result is 43 users. But our TAM (Total Addressable Market) is all Farcaster users (650,000). *Source of truth: EAS (https://optimism.easscan.org/address/0x579A18207242C250ADDb67cc4d49F34a5F659449)

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to increase user interaction. Marketing campaign.  A strong marketing campaign would accompany the incentive program, including 500 OP in prizes raffled between those recasting and quoting key casts of the incentive program. We have been active in Farcaster (https://warpcast.com/delegatematch) and X (https://x.com/delegate_match). We have 630+ Farcaster followers in less than two months. We have consistently done posts and dynamics to get new people to delegate or redelegate OP to active delegates, like the delegation challenge (https://warpcast.com/delegatematch/0x72ed4870). Incentive programs. The incentive programs are designed to bring 100+ delegators to active delegates to Optimism by rewarding delegating and redelegating to active delegates. As well as sharing key content. Partner with Optimism Stakeholders. We seek to improve governance accessibility and tackle the 100 million OP in voting supply goal in collaboration with other Optimism stakeholders focused on Optimism governance. Target audience characteristics Optimism holders who use Farcaster and either have not delegated their OP or whose delegator is not active. User interaction with Optimism Most users will be OP holders who will use the Frame to delegate for the first time or redelegate their OP. They will see a rank of delegates and a percentage of their fit with them. Even non-OP holders can get curious and buy OP. All users will be funneled to delegate to active delegates. Competitors on Optimism: This project is a network good for Optimism. We take no fees, and therefore, we don’t see other initiatives to increase the votable supply of Optimism as competition. The first answer to the market analysis provides a more detailed reply to this question.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** DelegateMatch has no contracts.

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) # of active addresses interacting with grantee’s contracts
- **Fill out your metric objective:** The metric specified in the mission request is the number of active addresses interacting with the grantee’s contracts. However, since we don’t have contracts, plus this grant is for experiments and ours is a governance experiment, we prefer to focus on the following metrics:

- Number of addresses delegating: 100+
- Total amount of OP delegated  using the grantee’s protocol: 15,000+ OP.

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of request and justification 2500 OP Everything will be used to encourage end users to delegate OP to active delegates. Incentive program breakdown: 1000 OP in a token distribution incentive program. Give 10 OP to the first 100 holders with at least 100 OP that use our frame and delegates to active delegates within a 2-week period. 1000 OP in a raffle. Five 200 OP prizes will be raffled between delegators who delegate at least 30 OP to active delegates within a 2-week period. 500 OP in a raffle. Five 100 OP prizes raffle between those that recasted or quoted the key casts promoting the incentive programs and the delegate match. Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap) Prepare a comms/marketing plan. Create the incentive programs. Create the token distribution incentive program in Unitap. Create the raffle in Unitap. OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives) 100% to end users. 1000 OP (40%) on a raffle. 1000 OP (40%) on an incentive program 500 OP (20%) for sharing the incentive program casts. Token distribution timeline. The incentive program and the raffle will occur in the 45 days following the payment of the growth grant. Sustainability post-incentives Token delegation is sticky. It would be unusual for new delegators to active delegates to change their minds and redelegate to non-active delegates. Additionally, the raffle for Farcaster users recasting and quoting the casts of the incentive program can grow the DelegateMatch brand and attract new users post incentives. Finally, if this experiment is successful and we assess that it could be scaled, we will seek funding to repeat it and scale it with risk mitigation measures to prevent anyone from gaming the incentive program or other negative consequences. Additional accountability info (smart contract addresses, wallet addresses, etc.): Team wallets: EOA: 0xE40714459D9493994BE025F04afc38D2BCF42f8E Multisig: 0xAC62469F4be305727a7De52785E148CbB8C3Eb65

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem solved for Optimism. There is under 100 MIllion OP in votable supply, yet most votes have been passed, with under 50 million OP from under 2K addresses (https://optimism.curiahub.xyz/participation). Additionally, the top 20 delegates surpass the quorum from most of the latest votes. Therefore, the Optimism collective still needs to improve governance accessibility and increase governance participation. We aim to: Help increase total OP delegation to active delegates to reach the 10% goal. Make it as easy as possible for OP holders to delegate to someone who matches their values if they are not deep into Optimism governance. Level the playing field so that underrepresented delegates can grow their delegation based on their votes, not popularity. Value proposition. DelegateMatch offers a simple solution for finding delegates aligned with the OP holders' vision and values in less than five minutes through the most popular distribution channel (Farcaster). We are piloting an incentive program to assess how effective different incentives can be in increasing votable supply. Growth potential for Optimism. The DelegateMatch potential to help increase the votable supply is quite scalable for the following reasons: This is a low-cost, high-impact solution. Building, improving, and maintaining it is low-cost, while the impact can be very significant. Targeted and massive distribution. Farcaster enables the possibility of reaching a massive audience, but also a very specific one. In the following iterations, we will use the Farcaster social graph to target OP holders who either have not delegated OP or have delegated to non-active delegates. Incentives as a growth mechanism. Incentives are very effective at driving behavior. We are testing different approaches to ensure we drive positive behavior while mitigating negative consequences. Furthermore, DelegateMatch can be extended to DAOs later within the Optimism ecosystem, and the code is open source for anyone to use. Commitment to building on Optimism. DelegateMatch was developed for Optimism, as you can see in this post https://gov.optimism.io/t/request-for-feedback-building-a-farcaster-frame-as-a-governance-tool-to-facilitate-matchmaking-between-op-holders-and-delegates/8557#for-delegates-2 Everything from features to branding has been aligned with Optimism. Deployment status (exclusively on Optimism, on Optimism and other networks, not yet deployed, etc.): The DelegateMatch frame has been live exclusively on Optimism since the end of August 2024. In less than a month, we have had 43 users.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** No
- **Contributions from non-team members:** No

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': '1. Prepare a comms/marketing plan.', 'source_of_truth': 'https://gov.optimism.io/t/request-for-feedback-building-a-farcaster-frame-as-a-governance-tool-to-facilitate-matchmaking-between-op-holders-and-delegates/8557/16', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 20', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 27'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': '1. Prepare a comms/marketing plan.', 'source_of_truth': 'https://gov.optimism.io/t/request-for-feedback-building-a-farcaster-frame-as-a-governance-tool-to-facilitate-matchmaking-between-op-holders-and-delegates/8557/16', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 20', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 27'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 27', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': '1. Prepare a comms/marketing plan.', 'source_of_truth': 'https://gov.optimism.io/t/request-for-feedback-building-a-farcaster-frame-as-a-governance-tool-to-facilitate-matchmaking-between-op-holders-and-delegates/8557/16', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 20', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 27'}
