# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/ether-fi-op-mainnet-lrt-grant-46198635300198077

## Contact Info

- **Email:** N/A
- **Telegram:** jozef@ether.fi
- **X handle:** https://x.com/ether_fi
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** https://discord.com/invite/zqGzcuQWvD
- **Demo:** https://www.ether.fi/
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 24000
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 96000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0x5c8c76f2e990f194462dc5f8a8c76ba16966ed42
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** If the OP is not in Wallet 0x5c8c76f2e990f194462dc5f8a8c76ba16966ed42, the OP has been spent

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** N/A
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: Ether.fi is a decentralized, non-custodial delegated staking protocol with a liquid staking token. Built around this core of staking are accompanying products, such as Liquid and Cash, which aim to simplify the access and usability DeFi in a simple and secure manner. Ether.fi Stake - Stake your ETH or stETH and get eETH – a natively re-staked liquid staking token. Earn staking rewards across popular networks and the DeFi ecosystem. Plus, receive ether.fi loyalty points, EigenLayer points and many more partner rewards with your eETH. Ether.fi Liquid - Deposit eETH and other assets and let the vault optimize for yields across the very best protocols in DeFi. Whether your goal is to maximize your ETH yield, or earn to market-neutral yields on your stablecoins, there’s a vault for you. Plus, earn loyalty points and additional rewards when you use Liquid. Ether.fi Cash - No need to offramp your crypto to use it. The Cash spending account and Visa credit card will allow you to spend and borrow against your ether.fi balance in the real world. Cash includes a mobile app that connects to your ether.fi account and Visa credit card that you can load with your balance. Earn new Cash Points when you make a purchases with your card. Additional perks for members that pre-order. Success potential: Ether.fi is live across 9 chains including OP Mainnet, Arbitrum, Base, Blast, BNB, Linea, Scroll, and Mode with a total capture of ~2M ETH. Ether.fi stands as the market leader within the restaking sector and as the fifth largest protocol by TVL. The portion of weETH supplied on L2s sits at 10%, giving way to the future growth and adoption of L2 ecosystems. Ether.fi has taken an Ethereum aligned approach towards scaling solutions, and has worked with several foundations to widen the acceptance of weETH as collateral through the integration with chains, infrastructure providers, and DeFi protocols. Mission alignment: Mission Request 6: “Bolster presence of LRTs on Optimism as the primary L2 for hosting LRT liquidity. LRTs cumulatively have a TVL of $11Bn+, mostly concentrated on Mainnet.” Ether.fi is directly aligned with the growth of LRTs as the largest provider of restaking services across EigenLayer, Symbiotic, and Karak. Ether.fi’s mission is to responsibly grow it’s TVL across preferred avenues which align with the following principles: Decentralization is a primary objective . We will never compromise on the non-custodial and decentralized nature of the protocol. Stakers must maintain control of their ETH. The ether.fi protocol is a real business with a sustainable revenue model . We’re in this for the long haul. We think and plan on the scale of decades. We will do the right thing for the Ethereum community, always . If and when we mess up, we will own it and course correct quickly. Novelty: One of the distinguishing characteristics of Ether.fi is being the only protocol where stakers control their keys. With most other delegated staking protocols the starting point is that the staker deposits their ETH and is matched with a node operator, who generates and holds the staking credentials. Although this approach can be implemented such that the protocol is non-custodial, in practice in most cases it creates a mechanism that is custodial or semi-custodial. This can expose the staker to significant and opaque counterparty risk, you're effectively forced to ask your node operator for permission to exit your validator.  With ether.fi the staker controls their keys and retains custody of their ETH while delegating staking to a node operator. This significantly reduces their risk surface area. Will the project be open source?: Ether.fi holds itself accountable to the highest standards for ensuring the safety of its users and transparency of its risk. Ether.fi has built the following set of dashboards, of which it supports the development, to ensure users are able to openly follow the growth and liquidity profile of the platform. Ether.fi operates on-chain through the use of open-source smart contracts and continues to push for the long term health of Ethereum through its allocation of rewards to the Protocol Guild. Dashboard Portal: https://dune.com/ether_fi/dune-dashboards-portal Free or fee-based for end users?: Ether.fi operates on varying monetization models depending on the services rendered. Ether.fi charges a 10% fee on the staking rewards of its Stake product which is further split between 5% to infrastructure operators and 5% to Ether.fi. This rate is competitive with the industry standard while providing additional functionality beyond that of traditional staked Eth. On the Liquid product, a 2% platform fee is charged to cover operational and risk monitoring costs, while letting users retain control over their duration through no-fee deposits & withdrawals along with no hidden performance fees. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How?: Ether.fi is highly composable with other projects as a base asset provider of weETH. weETH has found itself across the main sectors of DEXs, Borrow Lend, Leveraged Farming, Aggregators and more. The DeFi ecosystem within OP Mainnet has already been engaged by the Ether.fi team previously, and weETH has been integrated across several protocols and is live on-chain. In particular, the Velodrome team is part of the current list of DeFi partners receiving an additional boosted reward through the seasonal points program.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and differentiation: Ether.fi has grown to and retained over a 40% marketshare within the restaking sector as the market leader. It has accomplished this through its focus on users and security, being one of the first liquid restaking protocols to market both in its launch and on providing features such as withdrawals. Ether.fi is not immune to competition, there are over a dozen liquid restaking protocols which are attempting to compete, however, do not have the same level of integrations or liquidity which hurt their ability to scale. DeFi is a sector in which liquidity begets liquidity, and backing the market leader gives the greatest chance of success. One of the distinguishing characteristics of ether.fi is being the only protocol where stakers control their keys. With most other delegated staking protocols the starting point is that the staker deposits their ETH and is matched with a node operator, who generates and holds the staking credentials. Although this approach can be implemented such that the protocol is non-custodial, in practice in most cases it creates a mechanism that is custodial or semi-custodial. This can expose the staker to significant and opaque counterparty risk, you're effectively forced to ask your node operator for permission to exit your validator.  With ether.fi the staker controls their keys and retains custody of their ETH while delegating staking to a node operator. This significantly reduces their risk surface area. Current user base and estimation method: Ether.fi ’s user base and community contains upwards of 50,000 users as evidenced by the active claimers for Season 2. Specifically, within the claim process, users were given the option to receive their rewards on L1 or L2, with over 25,000 users opting for L2 showing their preference and willingness to engage in additional ecosystems. As these users are gas conscious and yield driven, OP Mainnet serves as an effective hub to attract and retain these users.

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to increase user interaction: The grant will be put forth primarily to increase TVL within our partner protocols within the DeFi ecosystem. By incentivizing differing liquidity pools, users will have their choice of sub-sector to participate in to drive metrics and retention within those platforms. As a base asset provider, Ether.fi takes an agnostic view to the market, enabling integrations in a broad capacity and pushing expansion in a targeted way. Target audience characteristics: The target audience spans a wide range from small DeFi novice to larger DeFi powerusers. By generally incentivizing liquidity, the shape of TVL typically forms a long tail of smaller users and a handful of large users that mutually benefit from the pairing. Specific targeting of each user camp can be accomplished through either flat or linear scaling rewards. User interaction with Optimism: Users will primarily interact with OP Mainnet through the current plethora of DeFi protocols available within the OP Mainnet ecosystem. Users will be able to take their weETH holdings and deploy them into a variety of shapes and sizes of liquidity pools in order to balance the risks that they find comfortable. Users will also be able to discover protocols through Ether.fi’s DeFi page with associated boosts and rewards. Competitors on Optimism: Ether.fi has several competitors within the OP Mainnet ecosystem, however, none have directed their focus on the OP chain. Various LRT providers have acted opportunistically in their choice of integrations and chains, however, Ether.fi views the OP Mainnet ecosystem as long term essential to the growth of Ethereum and will continue to support the integrations and protocols within.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** weETH on OP Mainnet - 0x5A7fACB970D094B6C7FF1df0eA68D99E6e73CBFF Velo - 0xd0F92F5d756Bf223574DFa3ef284a35C3c046289

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol
- **Fill out your metric objective:** 5,000 weETH of TVL added to the OP Mainnet ecosystem

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of request and justification: 120,000 OP Ether.fi is requesting the maximum allocated size of 120,000 OP to drive liquidity within the OP Mainnet ecosystem. As the largest LRT protocol, Ether.fi can utilize its existing liquidity network and visibility to help bring greater effectiveness and stickiness to the incentives beyond the campaign duration. Plan for accomplishing the project: The following timeline has been put together to help guide the conversation. It is not indicative of a hard example to account for unforeseen situations or additional integrations which may take additional development time. 23rd August - Receive OP distribution and finalize scoping of incentive campaigns and partner protocols 2nd September - Begin incentivizing of liquidity pools and market weETH opportunities available on Optimism Sep → Dec - Monitor the efficiency of incentives and continue optimizing deployment to maximize TVL growth 31st Dec - Wind down campaign and assess the stickiness of liquidity gained and ability to drive long term retention moving forward OP tokens distribution: 80% of tokens will be directed toward users in the form of liquidity incentives The weETH asset is currently bottlenecked by the availability of DEX liquidity on OP mainnet. To solve this constraint in an immediate manner to unlock the flow of liquidity, OP incentives will be directed to the weETH/wstETH and or weETH/WETH Velo pools. An initial target of $5M-$10M liquidity will be set, and achieved through optimizing distributions to match a competitive rate against other markets of 10%-12% returns. An estimated 10,000 to 20,000 OP will be directed on a weekly basis for a period of 4 to 8 weeks. Phase two will commence afterwards, including the push to add weETH as collateral onto large borrow/lend markets such as Aave/Compound. If necessary, OP would be used to incentivize the supply side for these markets as well, to facilitate growth and reach the 5,000 weETH target. 20% of tokens will be locked to later be directed toward the acquisition of longer term liquidity acquisition The OP tokens will be used to bolster partners through the acquisition of protocol tokens which can direct incentives on an on-going basis to support the additional liquidity captured through the campaign Token distribution timeline: The timeline for incentive distribution will be through Q3 & Q4 of 2024. The campaign will close at year end and will allow for competitive yield with a focus on longevity rather than fall victim to the inverted “v” shaped curves found in shorter duration campaigns. Sustainability post-incentives: A small portion of the grant has been allocated to be locked, corresponding to the one year required period, to acquire VELO tokens. These future VELO tokens will be utilized to acquire votes within the protocol which will then be directed at weETH liquidity pools to build a sticky foundational layer. Before that given period, weETH integrations onto borrow/lend protocols have proven to retain capital well and will be unlocked after increased DEX liquidity through short term incentives. Ether.fi will continue to take a long term view on the ecosystem in supporting its growth, and aims to strike a balance between growth and retention. Additional accountability info: N/A

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem solved for Optimism: OP Mainnet has previously struggled with the traction of TVL. With the expansion of Base as part of the Superchain, many of its users chose to allocate to Base in the hunt of potential rewards or ease of off-ramps & on-ramps. In order for OP Mainnet to become competitive, it must first attract that liquidity back on-chain and secure it through a healthy DeFi ecosystem, which can be supported by larger projects such as Ether.fi. Value proposition: Layer-2s drive growth in several forms, but primarily benefit from both users and TVL. By heightening the adoption of LRTs, OP Mainnet is able to pull itself forward towards the latest sources of yield that have gained widespread adoption and allowed for competitive markets. An increase of TVL will also attract more DeFi builders, as the pool to capture becomes larger and no-longer zero sum. Growth potential for Optimism: Plainly, OP Mainnet will benefit from higher TVLs within its DeFi protocols. Additional capital will allow for deeper liquidity, and may attract larger users on an individual or institutional basis. Optimism has already attracted top-tier teams such as Aave, and needs to continue doubling down on continuing to support the ecosystem by attracting market leads within every sector. Commitment to building on Optimism: Ether.fi has already integrated OP Mainnet as one of its L2 partners, and supports the bridging of weETH via LayerZero. Ether.fi has built points integrations with protocols within the DeFi ecosystem of OP Mainnet, such as Velodrome, and has given out and continues to give out additional boosts for the Ether.fi seasons. Deployment status: Fully deployed on Optimism and other networks

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** Liquidity Incentives
- **Contributions from non-team members:** N/A

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'in progress', 'title': 'weETH OP Mainnet LRT Growth', 'source_of_truth': 'https://dune.com/ether_fi/weeth-l2s', 'op_amount': '120000', 'op_deployment_date': 'Sep 1', 'incentives_due_date': 'Sep 1'}
