# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Idle - Credit Vaults III
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/idle-credit-vaults-iii-981117297217641

## Contact Info

- **Email:** biaf@idle.finance
- **Telegram:** @biafffff
- **X handle:** @biafffff
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** https://gov.idle.finance/
- **Demo:** https://loom.com/share/folder/447be8f8e36647cd8d6cd54da6a98883
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 140000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xFDbB4d606C199F091143BD604C85c191a526fbd0
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** OP granted to Idle will be held in the Leagues multisig and distributed weekly, airdropped, to LPs. An overview of the reward distribution process follows:
- Once a week (~every Wednesday at 5 pm) a snapshot of the current pool’s users and liquidity will be taken.
- A public script will be used to compute the weight of each address’s deposit for the previous week with respect to the pool’s TVL.
- Each wallet will then receive, through an airdrop, an OP reward amount that guarantees a fixed extra return on top of the vault base yield.

The token distribution will be easily trackable on-chain. To this end, a Dune dashboard will be set up to show the distribution transactions, and the amount granted and airdropped.

The script used to distribute OP rewards during previous campaigns can be found in this GitHub repository https://github.com/Idle-Labs/idle-op-distribution

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** We applied during Cycle 27 and 28 and the proposal submitted can be found at these links [1] , [2] . We do value the possibility of launching our new credit vaults on Optimism and incentivizing the liquidity formation with OP rewards, hence we decided to re-apply. This resubmission proposal improves the following areas to address the concerns presented by the committee members in evaluating the grant request: Security: Added more details about audit and future security plans Product: Added demo videos to let the committee better grasp the vault and more information about the novelty Credit vaults introduce and the long-term plans on the chain Incentives: Added more background information about the grant size request and reduced the grant size by 30% following the committee advisory
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** The Credit Vault smart contracts’ inherit a significant part of the codebase from the Yield Tranche ones that were audited multiple times by Hats Finance and Consensys Diligence , have been battle-tested since 2021, and have never suffered any hack. All audit reports can be found in the Idle's docs . This application specifically refers to the Credit vaults smart contract that was audited recently three times by Hans Friese , a top-20 auditor from Code4rena. Additionally,  Idle applied to the audit OP grant managed by Sherlock ( proposal link ). At the smart contract level, Credit Vaults (CVs) provide a robust infrastructure for settlement, credit facilitation, and securitization, ensuring that the specific conditions of each epoch govern deposits and withdrawals. While the risk curator manages potential risks and the borrower/strategist handles the strategy's complexity, CVs permit interactions exclusively from KYC-approved, whitelisted addresses. This stringent access control significantly minimizes the surface of attack, reducing vulnerability to both technological exploits and financial manipulation.
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** 1. Idle DAO aims to expand the DeFi credit market through yield automation and hedging tools, fostering a sustainable financial ecosystem with efficient, risk-adjusted capital allocation. Since 2019, the Idle DAO product suite managed over $300m TVL and routed more than $2b volume for yield optimization. The current product lineup includes: Aggregated Vaults (since 2019), simplifying diversification with automated or fixed fund allocation to optimize risks and rewards while saving time, gas, and taxes. Isolated Vaults (since 2021), offering tailored investments by splitting yields into different tranches, catering to varied risk profiles, yield strategies, and time horizons. Credit Vaults (forthcoming), bridging DeFi and TradFi by enabling capital raising and off-chain yield access with transparency and on-chain custody. The grant will be used to incentivize liquidity formation in Idle’s upcoming new Credit Vault (CV) on Optimism focusing on a leading Prime Brokerage borrower. The vault aims to streamline the lending processes, offering a robust solution that integrates with the traditional financial institution network while meeting stringent compliance standards and leveraging the benefits of blockchain. Yield Using Idle’s CV, on-chain liquidity providers will be able to lend funds to a leading prime brokerage firm while benefiting from a curated model that balances capital efficiency and risk. The CV setup is designed to simplify the complexity of risk monitoring and provide on-chain access to Prime Brokerage asset management. Curators cater to liquidity providers by overseeing risk and setting interest rates, while the Prime Brokerage borrower ensures that lenders maintain technical over-collateralization on their loan book. This structure allows users to benefit from a seamless and secure lending experience. The interest rate mechanism of CV helps align lenders' and borrower interests. As long as the lender is yielding his target APY, funds are kept in the pool and borrowed out by the PB firm. Still, when the offered return falls below the desired APY, lenders have the opportunity to decide whether to keep staying in the pool or withdraw promptly (from standard withdrawal to instant withdrawal). ℹ️ Specs: The vault is made as a 30-day evergreen loan which updates the interest rate monthly. The IR model is unique and includes a condition where if the interest rate is equal to or higher than the previous one, LPs have a 30-day call back to withdraw funds; otherwise, if the interest rate is lower, the LPs are entitled to an early withdrawal. Risk The yield offering relies on prime brokerage and as with other lending activities is subject to the following Risk Mitigation FX risk US-based stablecoin as underlying to minimize slippage Liquidity risk Short-term loan duration, with a possibility of early exit Interest rate risk Dynamic IR model to adjust to changing market conditions Legal risk MLA agreements within parties to enforce funds recovery and active covenants monitoring through Accountable Compliance risk Privacy-preserving KYC/KYB process through Keyring CVs are managed by a dedicated risk curator, Maven 11 Credit in this instance, to monitor the borrower's activities and manage the vault’s cycles. At a smart contract level, the Idle’s vaults have been audited multiple times, there is a bug bounty program with Immunefy and real-time attack monitoring through Hypernative . 🎦 Demo: Some demo videos of the LP and curator/borrower apps can be found at this link . They preview different actions in the vaults: deposit, request withdraw and claim for the LP, open and close epoch for the curator, and increase allowance for the borrower. 2. We are requesting a grant from the OP Council to expand the on-chain credit market on Optimism, especially given the recent surge of interest in the RWA sector. The private credit sector currently boasts approximately 500m in on-chain active loans in the Ethereum ecosystem only, with the potential to increase to trillion figures Private credit has been one of the fastest-growing segments of the financial system over the past 15 years. The asset class, as commonly measured, totaled nearly $2 trillion by the end of 2023, roughly ten times larger than it did in 2009. McKinsey , "The next era of private credit", September 2024 Idle is on a mission to bring private credit transactions on-chain, providing a decentralized infrastructure that significantly reduces the costs and complexity associated with traditional off-chain securitization. By utilizing on-chain solutions, Idle minimizes intermediary fees, streamlining the entire credit structure. This grant will help us leverage Optimism's growing ecosystem to connect liquidity providers with institutions, enhancing the overall financial infrastructure on the Superchain. Compared to traditional DeFi approaches, Credit Vaults strengthen the capabilities of the DeFi credit market by moving beyond the standard over-collateralization. The objective is to deliver full end-to-end transparency, bringing the entire capital structure, securitization, and debt servicing processes on-chain. This includes features like multi-tranching, NAV tracking, privacy-first tokenization, and real-time reporting. Simultaneously, Credit Vaults offer a decentralized infrastructure that significantly reduces the costs and complexity of traditional off-chain securitization by utilizing open-source solutions to minimize intermediaries and streamline processes, providing a more efficient alternative to traditional finance. Idle's extensive background and the expertise of its core team position us strongly to achieve the grant milestones. Idle DAO has a proven track record of successful deployments across various chains, including Polygon , Polygon zkEVM , and Optimism , demonstrating our capacity to execute across diverse ecosystems. The core team, with over 30 years of combined experience in crypto, software development, and traditional finance, brings a wealth of knowledge and a well-rounded approach to innovation. Key contributors include: Matteo , co-founder and CEO of Idle Labs, is a seasoned DeFi advisor and mentor at ConsenSys Tachyon and Graph Paper Capital, with previous experience as a Senior Financial Risk Advisor at Deloitte. William , co-founder and CTO, was a full stack developer at Pitchtarget (Facebook incubated). Samuele , co-founder and CPO, has experience as a full-stack developer at Lapis and project manager at GIMO Ltd. Biaf , leading growth, previously worked as a researcher in academia and as a banker at Citi. He is also one of the co-organizers of the Italian conference hub SpaghettETH (ETH Milan, ETH Rome, NapuleETH, ETH Venice, ETH Turin, Ethna, and more). The founding team initially gained experience in the arbitrage market through a private project, Atøm, which later evolved into Idle’s Yield aggregator, managing over $300m at its peak. This blend of expertise and successful track record ensures we are well-equipped to meet the objectives set forth by the grant. Advisors include Adam Bilko, asset manager at RockawayX Credit fund, Alessandro Balata, portfolio manager at Fasanara Digital , and Patti Legal as legal counsel. The VCs backing the project include Consensys , RockawayX , Gumi , Fasanara Digital , GreenField , and Longhash Ventures . The recently closed strategic round onboarded the Rockaway credit arm as a lead liquidity provider partner. 3. The grant request aligns with the mission goal of [...] make Optimism the dominant venue for trading and creating yield-bearing assets. The target assets include real-world assets (RWAs), yield-bearing DeFi tokens that are simple in structure, and staked ETH. Idle aims to offer the first prime brokerage credit strategy on Optimism and expand the Optimism RWA offering. The grant, coupled with rewards from Idle DAO, will help us target a double-digit yield. This yield target comes from discussions with the current LPs and key stakeholders that have committed the majority of targeted liquidity. It also follows the mission request goal Assets that are bridged into Optimism and then subsequently deposited into DeFi protocols will target a 5% annualized reward incentive (in OP) on top of whatever native yield is produced by the DeFi protocol and underlying asset. 4. Previous attempts in DeFi credit mechanisms primarily relied on credit-only underwriting methodologies to extend loans to trading firms, significantly deviating from the established TradFi Prime Brokerage (PB) model. This shift led to notable deficiencies, making these approaches inadequate for effective lending, as credit-only underwriting quickly produces results that become obsolete. To address these limitations, Idle introduces a new underlying risk model of CV, set up in partnership with the pool curator, Maven11 Credit .  The prime-brokerage risk model, emerges as a distinct and effective solution for financing trading firms in the crypto market, diverging from the credit-only underwriting approaches used in the last cycle. It features: Balance capital efficiency for trading firms, similar to under-collateralized lending, while technically maintaining over-collateralization Conduct lending within PB’s controlled ecosystem, enabling liquidation control over both collateral and loan proceeds Apply prudent risk management through a combination of credit reviews and the PB Risk Engine, ensuring real-time risk monitoring capabilities Adjust collateral requirements dynamically in response to real-time changes in the quality of assets traded, the quality of posted collateral, and the use of funds (e.g., strategy type) Employ a 1-Pool-for-1-Borrower Model, strictly limiting fund deployment to a single borrower. This model is crucial during due diligence, as it contrasts with other credit pools where curators or managers can lend to multiple borrowers. The long-term plan is to create a credit marketplace to facilitate other builders, risk curators, and borrowers to leverage the Credit Vaults infrastructure. This proposal would set the stage for a wider ecosystem endeavor and gives support to build a credit and yield derivatives marketplace where users can create their very own yield portfolio, and builders offer different private credit pools. In addition, Liquidity providers can leverage the battle-tested tranching mechanism to tailor their investments to varying needs. Whether they seek the security and steady returns of Senior tranches, the boosted yields of Junior tranches, or aim to farm points or maximize yield . 5. Yes, Idle’s codebase is open source, ensuring transparency, community collaboration, and security through public scrutiny. 6. The Credit vaults have a 10-15% performance fee, this means that any fee deducted is taken only from the yield generated, while the principal rests untouched. 7. Idle’s deployment comes with built-in composability from day 1. The Credit Vaults are designed to integrate seamlessly with other DeFi protocols on Optimism thanks to the ERC-4626 compatibility. Idle's dev team also plans to create a technical standard based on the Credit Vault interface. This standard should streamline cross-protocol integrations and increase CV adoption. The ERC-7540 standard, previously discussed, has been judged as not fitting given its continuous nature that goes in contrast with the cycle/epoch approach of Credit Vaults. We also aim to use our LP tokens as collateral in third-party lending protocols. This enables users to leverage their positions and create additional TVL for the vaults, allowing for indirect permissionless access to permissioned Credit Vaults. To this end, we started discussing the LP tokens listing with both lending markets, such as Aave and Silo Finance , with whom previous partnerships were held. Bringing the Credit Vaults on OP will also call for Keyring deployment on the chain offering a new way to run KYC processes in a privacy-preserving way (zk proofed). The protocol is currently available only on mainnet, Base, and Arbitrum. Additionally, Idle plans to partner with other S6 grantees to foster synergies inside the Optimism ecosystem. A simple example could be to promote some bridges at launch to push LPs to use specific solutions, creating a positive flywheel for the chain.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Idle’s new Credit Vaults will position the Optimism ecosystem as the de facto place to expand and streamline the DeFi credit market. Optimism is a natural fit for Idle’s Credit Vaults due to its compatibility with Ethereum. This allows for the seamless deployment of smart contracts while inheriting the robust security of the Ethereum network and addressing scalability concerns - both crucial factors to grow the private credit market on-chain. Other projects focusing on the credit market on-chain are Clearpool, Centrifuge, Maple, Goldfinch, and TrueFi. These use mostly a pool utilization rate model and are not active on Optimism (other than Clearpool); neither of them is active in the prime brokerage credit sector. Some protocols, such as August , Prime , GoldLink , and Arkis , are trying to offer B2C prime brokerage solutions showing that the PB market is expanding on-chain. Idle DAO has a diverse user base that includes individual DeFi users, institutional funds, and DAO treasuries. The milestones set mostly rely on liquidity tracking given the expected liquidity inflow, nonetheless, we aim to monitor user adoption rate and total loans originated as well.

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** The grant will be only used to incentivize early liquidity providers for Credit Vaults, thereby bootstrapping the initial liquidity necessary for borrowers. The target market for our product suite is multifaceted, addressing both the liquidity and borrowing sides: Liquidity side: We primarily target stablecoin users, focusing on institutional funds and DAO treasury managers. Additionally, our B2B2C integration partners play a crucial role in expanding our reach and pool accessibility. Borrowing side: Initially, our focus will be on prime brokerages and private credit lines. As we grow, we plan to extend our services to encompass corporate bonds, commercial notes factoring, cross-border payments, and account receivables financing, diversifying our offerings and tapping into new market segments. For the upcoming Credit Vaults, we are closely working with leading credit institutions and yield funds such as RockawayX , Maven 11 , Fasanara Digital , MEV Capital , and others. Multiple institutions have soft-committed liquidity provisions, making the TVL milestone set within reach. In light of the doubts arose, we would be glad to host a call to let the committee speak with the prospective LPs and demonstrate the liquidity commitment and milestones reachability.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** The granted OP will be kept in custody in the Leagues multisig wallet on Optimism, 0xFDbB4d606C199F091143BD604C85c191a526fbd0 . The distribution may be carried out by the “Finance wallet” 0xeA173648F959790baea225cE3E75dF8A53a6BDE5 in charge of operational transactions execution. Additionally, the Smol.dapp’s disperse address on Optimism may be used to streamline the airdrop process, 0xD152f549545093347A162Dce210e7293f1452150 .

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol
- **Fill out your metric objective:** 20,000,000

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** The OP tokens granted will foster liquidity provision in line with the mission goal following a linear distribution with a time or TVL cap. The grant amount requested, 140,000, has been modeled as the rounded average amount to offer a +5% to up to $20m TVL using the current OP price and the 3-month one. It should cover a 3 to 6-month-long incentives campaign. This size of incentives will help us target a yield of 20%, given that the underlying vaults are performing at around 15% (fixed yield). The milestones proposed are the following Milestone and KPI Source Deadline Optimism deployment Deploy a Credit vault Complete full audit Onboard at least 1 risk curator and 1 borrower optimistic.etherscan.io Within two months after the grant is awarded Launch and OP reward campaign kick-off Launch of the Credit vaults Launch of the OP rewards campaign with weekly airdrop to LPs bridging/minting new assets Idle App DeFiLlama Dune X Within one month after the smart contract deployment Liquidity growth Reach $10m TVL in aggregated liquidity on Optimism Reach $20m TVL in aggregated liquidity on Optimism. Idle App DeFiLlama Dune X Within three months after the release of the pool and the reward camping start Our current TVL on the chain is $330,000 due to the recent closure of multiple borrowing pools on Clearpool (namely Fasanara, Portofino, and Bastion) – something standard in loan lifecycle and partly due to operative costs incurred by borrowers with Clearpool's set-up. This is one of the reasons behind the decision to ask for this grant to support the launch of our Credit Vaults and improve credit pool terms, usage, and the overall infrastructure. The current TVL of Idle shouldn’t be taken as the only source of grant success potential, given the product market fit, experience of the team, previous achievements, and the established network in the DeFi space. Compared to other applications in the same Yield track, Idle's request is significant, but also the one targeting the highest increase in TVL. This makes the proposal’s ratio of incentives to TVL the most efficient. C ycle Incentives TVL target Ratio 26 115,000 2,000,000 17.39 26 136,000 4,000,000 29.41 27 180,000 8,000,000 44.44 26 70,000 4,000,000 57.14 26 61,542 6,000,000 97.49 29 140,000 20,000,000 142.86 Since the first pool deployment, Idle's TVL on Optimism has been on average $8.2m (Oct 2023 - Oct 2024), with a peak of $21m. The full analysis for grant size and historical TVL can be found at this link . To ensure long-term sustainability, Idle DAO plans to introduce additional rewards in Q1-2025, complementing the pool’s incentives to extend and enrich the reward program. This campaign will reward the users for locking their liquidity. The longer, the higher the points multiplier. This aligns with a broader tokenomics restructure for Idle, as announced in the DAO’s Governance . In addition to liquidity improvements, we are currently designing a series of exciting updates to our tokenomics structure. These updates are aimed at providing more value to our community and token holders, fostering a stronger alignment of interests. While we cannot reveal all the details just yet, we are enthusiastic about the potential of these innovations to create a more engaging and rewarding experience for our users. Additionally, we are working with institutional credit funds to lock liquidity in the pools for a period longer than the rewards campaign. LPs will be also able to benefit from the DAO’s token staking model , which offers fee discounts to further incentivize users’ liquidity to stick in the pools.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** The current on-chain credit market faces limitations due to interest rate volatility and suboptimal loan terms due to fund utilization mechanisms. Idle DAO’s novel credit vaults address these problems, offering a more predictable and transparent lending environment. This strengthens the overall financial infrastructure of Optimism, making it more attractive for institutional and retail users. Idle’s Credit Vaults aim to offer a more efficient funds distribution from lenders to borrowers to become the cornerstone of on-chain credit activity. Once scaled, Idle aims to become a permissionless credit marketplace, where every credit offer can be listed to give a full overview of the available markets to LPs. If deployed on Optimism, they can significantly improve the chain offering in the field that currently relies on only one protocol. It’s also important to note that the Vault setup is really flexible and can be adjusted to multiple RWA needs. Each parameter, such as target rate or epoch length can be tailored to risk curators' advice, LPs, and borrowers' needs. Idle DAO has been fully committed to building and expanding its products on Optimism since receiving its first grant from the Superchain during Season 04 . The team recognizes Optimism’s technical advantages, including lower transaction costs and faster transaction times, which are crucial for providing a seamless user experience. Additionally, Idle values the SuperChain ecosystem that gives the possibility to easily expand to other L2s offering the same standard of security and efficiency. The Prime Brokerage Credit Vaults will be deployed exclusively on Optimism at first. The current smart contract deployed on OP is only for testing purposes. Once the final one is launched, we will update the proposal with the corresponding Vault and LP token addresses.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** No
- **Contributions from non-team members:** No

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 29', 'cycle': 'Not Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Optimism deployment', 'source_of_truth': 'optimistic.etherscan.io', 'op_amount': '56,000', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 29', 'op_tokens_request': 'Not Completed', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 29', 'title': 'Optimism deployment', 'source_of_truth': 'optimistic.etherscan.io', 'op_amount': '56,000', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Not Completed', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 29', 'completed': 'Not Completed', 'title': 'Optimism deployment', 'source_of_truth': 'optimistic.etherscan.io', 'op_amount': '56,000', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
