# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** OETH on OP (2 of 3)
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/oeth-on-op-2-of-3-07697256675112008

## Contact Info

- **Email:** peter@originprotocol.com
- **Telegram:** @Pgee13
- **X handle:** @Pgee13
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** https://discord.com/invite/ogn
- **Demo:** https://originprotocol.com/
- **Other:** https://www.youtube.com/c/originprotocol

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 29978
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0x6E3fddab68Bf1EBaf9daCF9F7907c7Bc0951D1dc
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** If the OP is not in the L2 Recipient Address, it has been spent.

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** The OETH codebase has undergone 9+ audits since 2020, all of which can be seen here: https://docs.originprotocol.com/security-and-risk/audits Origin also keeps OpenZeppelin on retainer to review 100% of the OETH smart contract changes, and recently retained yAudit to look at our PRs as we code.
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: Origin Ether (OETH) was launched in May 2023 and is an ERC-20 LST that generates yield while sitting in your wallet. Similar to stETH, OETH yield is paid out daily and automatically (sometimes multiple times per day) through a positive rebase in the form of additional OETH, proportional to the amount of OETH held. Originally launched as a yield aggregator offering diversified exposure to other top LSTs, OETH has since transitioned to become a liquid staking token itself with the underlying ETH deployed to the Ethereum Beacon chain using distributed validators through SSV . With over $130 million TVL, top-tier integrations including EigenLayer, Morpho, Pendle, and Silo, plus a novel mechanism for ensuring a 1:1 ETH peg (see Origin’s ARM ), OETH is poised to become the superior LST for composability. Through partnerships with Velodrome and Silo, we intend to bring OETH to Optimism and offer the most compelling yield opportunities derived from Ethereum staking. This starts with bridging OETH to Optimism in the form of Wrapped OETH (wOETH), which is a tokenized ERC-4626 vault on Ethereum. Unliked the rebasing version of OETH, wOETH grows in value every day instead of the quantity of tokens increasing in your wallet. Over time, wOETH can be unwrapped to an increasing number of OETH tokens as yield is earned, and this underlying OETH can be redeemed 1:1 for ETH permissionlessly. The wOETH to OETH exchange rate can be read from the Chainlink wOETH/OETH exchange rate feed on Optimism or via the OETH dapp . Once wOETH is bridged to Optimism, we’re excited to explore chain-specific opportunities to create a unique and compelling product experience on the Superchain. We envision a higher yielding, interoperable version of OETH becoming the most secure and stable yield source for end users and protocols to stack ETH faster on layer 2 and beyond. Success potential: Until recently, OETH was only supported on Ethereum. In the last few months, the Origin team has worked hard to bring OETH to L2's, starting with Arbitrum and following up with Optimism and Base. Thanks to Chainlink's CCIP, Origin was able to bridge OETH to Arbitrum, and managed to qualify for one of Arbitrum's LTIPP grants .  Using the funds from the grant, and from building partnerships with multiple projects, Origin has seen millions of dollars flow into OETH on Arbitrum. We hope to replicate this same success, and will put together a plan to drive TVL from Ethereum to Optimism and Base. Mission alignment: Origin would like to make OETH the dominant LST on Optimism by yield generation - yield generation for DAOs and organizations is the core concept of this mission, and it is not something OETH (and it's predecessor OUSD ) is new to. Since its inception, retail investors have treated OETH like a bank account or high-yield savings account within their wallet. Yield farmers have been using OETH to save on gas fees by replacing active farming with passive farming. DAOs are swapping their idle treasury ETH into OETH to extend their project runway. Funds and asset managers are incorporating OETH into their portfolios to hedge against centralization risk and obtain superior DeFi APYs. Origin would like to request a whitelisting status for wOETH among the other LSTs listed, so that DAOs and other organizations can benefit from the high yield and tight peg of OETH, as they have done in the past with OETH on Ethereum and Arbitrum. Novelty: We have noticed many LSTs trade below their peg due to DEX fees and slippage, and to reflect the time value of money. LSTs that consistently trade below peg effectively impose a hidden exit fee - certain LSTs often trade ~0.25% below peg, meaning it takes three weeks of staking to break even. This may be ok for long-term holders, but is terrible for users who plan to participate in leveraged looping LTSs or protocols that plan to rehypothecate funds for additional yield. This will not be the case with OETH. Will the project be open source? OETH is fully open source. The contracts and code can all be seen on the OETH Github and contract registry . Free or fee-based for end users? The OETH protocol is free to use. Users can mint OETH using ETH from the protocol, or can swap into OETH using any other token from any supported DEX. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? OETH is already supported on Silo to borrow WETH, and there are plans to roll out an OETH vault on dHEDGE and OneClick as well. Given Silo, dHEDGE, and OneClick support Optimism, it should be straightforward to work with these same projects to support OETH on Optimism.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** With the transition of OETH from an aggregator into an LSTs, the largest competitors are Lido's stETH, Rocket Pool's rETH, Binance's BETH, and Mantle's METH. OETH has differentiated itself in several ways: OETH's DVT staking, combined with the AMO, will make OETH the highest yielding of any LST (before any additional incentives are added). The AMO paired with the ARM will give OETH the tightest peg to ETH of any LST, while the ARM will also reduce the OETH exit queue back to ETH from days to a matter of minutes. Origin's current user base is made up of over 50,000 users across multiple Origin-launched tokens.

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to Increase User Interactions : We plan to actively engage with the Optimism community by participating in different protocols, building relationships, and facilitating co-marketing campaigns. This approach aims to get OETH users more involved with the Optimism ecosystem. User Interaction with Optimism : Initially, OETH was designed to be held and earn yield in wallets. Recently, we have focused on enabling more active on-chain participation through lending and yield trading integrations. Recognizing the demand for leveraging yielding positions, we aim to provide similar interactions for wOETH users on Optimism, enhancing their experience. Our current set of DeFi integrations is an indication of how we attempt to make the user interaction a good experience. Competitors on Optimism: The largest competitors on Optimism are: Lido, Rocket Pool, Binance, Mantle, Frax, and Coinbase.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** Contract address: 0x6E3fddab68Bf1EBaf9daCF9F7907c7Bc0951D1dc Contract label: Grant multi-sig on Optimism Contract address: 0x70843CE8E54d2b87Ee02B1911c06EA5632cd07d3 Contract label: Optimism Chainlink wOETH/OETH exchange rate

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol
- **Fill out your metric objective:** Achieve a TVL of $10-20 million on Optimism and encourage the expansion of LST on Optimism by promoting users to bridge funds from Ethereum, thereby enhancing their utilization within the Optimism ecosystem and forwarding the request to make Optimism the dominant chain for yield-bearing assets.

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Origin is currently in talks with multiple Optimism-supported protocols and is requesting an amount of OP in line with this mission, that is 29978 OP. Plan for Accomplishing the Project: Liquidity Building on Velodrome : Velodrome is the largest DEX on Optimism and an ideal place to build liquidity for our products. We will incentivize these pools to attract users. Money Market Integrations : As liquidity grows, we will target money market integrations on Optimism, allowing users to loop against their positions for higher yields with minimal gas costs. This includes co-marketing plans and discussions with related protocols to ensure user familiarity. Publishing Guides : We will create guides to ensure a seamless process for users. Leveraged Farming Integrations: For liquidity providers wanting to generate extra yield, we will seek leveraged farming integrations. Liquidity providers are crucial for targeting initial money market integrations, and we aim to ensure they are well-rewarded. OP Tokens Distribution: 60% for DEX initiatives and growing LP, making it easier for users to unwind positions without involving the bridge. 40 % for money market integrations and leveraged farming, incentivizing users to do more with their wOETH and promoting its growth. Origin will begin by seeding the LP with $100,000 worth of wOETH-ETH POL to kickstart growth. However, these funds will be excluded from any OP grants. Origin will be using this timeline to roll out OETH on Optimism: By the end of Week 4: Goal : $600K TVL deposited across different platforms as we build liquidity on Velodrome Actions : Spend 1153 OP per week in collaboration with different ecosystem protocols on Optimism to co-incentivize OETH usage Total Spend : 1249 OP per week By the end of Week 8: Goals : $1.2M OETH TVL deposited across different ecosystem partners Actions : Spend 1249 OP per week in collaboration with different ecosystem protocols on Optimism to co-incentivize OETH usage Total Spend : 1249 OP per week By the end of Week 12: Goals : $1.5M OETH TVL deposited across different ecosystem partners Actions : Spend 1249 OP per week in collaboration with different ecosystem protocols on Optimism to co-incentivize OETH usage Total Spend : 1249 OP per week By the end of Week 16: Goals : $2.5M OETH TVL deposited across different ecosystem partners Actions : Spend 1249 OP per week in collaboration with different ecosystem protocols on Optimism to co-incentivize OETH usage Total Spend : 1249 OP per week By the end of Week 20: Goals : $4M OETH TVL deposited across different ecosystem partners Actions : Spend 1249 OP per week in collaboration with different ecosystem protocols on Optimism to co-incentivize OETH usage Total Spend : 1249 OP per week By the end of Week 24: Goals : $6M OETH TVL deposited across different ecosystem partners Actions : Spend 1249 OP per week in collaboration with different ecosystem protocols on Optimism to co-incentivize OETH usage Total Spend : 1249 OP per week Total OP Spent after Week 24 : 29,978 OP

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Deployment Status : OETH is currently deployed on Ethereum and Arbitrum. Our next goal is to focus on the Superchain, starting with Optimism and Base, in the coming months. We believe this is a great opportunity to grow alongside the Superchain, and we are committed to expanding within this ecosystem. Commitment to Building on Optimism : Optimism is central to the Superchain, and we are dedicated to long-term development on this platform to establish a strong position within the ecosystem. A lot of ETH and LSTs are currently sitting idle on Ethereum, but they could serve better purposes on L2s due to lower transaction costs. Our goal is to deliver a fast, seamless DeFi experience on L2, allowing users to benefit from yielding positions. We are committed to offering this experience to our users and adding new value to Optimism with a high-yielding LST product.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** None
- **Contributions from non-team members:** All contributions will come from the Origin team

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 25', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 25', 'title': 'Origin will begin researching DAOs and other onchain organizations that have a treasury containing idle/unused ETH', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 25', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Origin will begin researching DAOs and other onchain organizations that have a treasury containing idle/unused ETH', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 25', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 25', 'title': 'Origin will begin researching DAOs and other onchain organizations that have a treasury containing idle/unused ETH', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 25', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Origin will begin researching DAOs and other onchain organizations that have a treasury containing idle/unused ETH', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
