# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Optimism GovQuests
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/optimism-govquests-8512541302772494

## Contact Info

- **Email:** luiza@bleu.studio
- **Telegram:** @luizakp
- **X handle:** N/A
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** N/A
- **Demo:** https://github.com/bleu/voter-participation-poc https://voter-participation-poc.vercel.app/
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 20000
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 5000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xa41214012d4462ecBB0724673897Ee0dCc0fDF49
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** if the OP is not in wallet oeth:0xa41214012d4462ecBB0724673897Ee0dCc0fDF49, eth:0x5D40015034DA6cD75411c54dd826135f725c2498, or gno:0x554866e3654E8485928334e7F91B5AfC37D18e04 it has been spent

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** There is no code audit for this project because no smart contract work is included in the current scope.
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: We are proposing Optimism GovQuests, a platform that transforms voting into an engaging, game-like experience. The app features leaderboard and streak systems designed to motivate users with competition and rewards. Also, an educational module, built on top of our GovSummarizer, helps users stay updated with Optimism governance discussions and proposals. Users earn points every time they vote in a Season, with streaks giving them additional points. To maintain engagement, the system sends push notifications reminding users to participate. Also, a tier system ensures that even beginners can see their progress and stay motivated, regardless of their standing on the leaderboard. Optimism GovQuests encourages people to vote regularly and adds a fun, competitive element to the process, tackling the mission's objective of increasing both token and voter participation in the DAO. 2. Success potential The project is likely to succeed considering our primary objective of increasing votable supply. Our target audience includes newcomers who don't fully understand the process, individuals who forget to vote, those who find it challenging to stay informed, and people who aren't sufficiently engaged. By transforming voting into an engaging, game-like experience with features like streaks and leaderboards, we're addressing a significant market need. Regarding technical feasibility, our team is well-equipped to handle this project. We have already developed and maintained a loyalty program in web2, giving us valuable experience in creating engaging reward systems. Additionally, our Web3 experience allows us to design rewards that are particularly compelling to the blockchain community. bleu was selected to work on Assistant AI in the last season and has been developing the Optimism GovGPT ( live ) and GovSummarizer (WIP), which will be used to generate weekly summaries of voting decisions. All this demonstrates our technical capability and our commitment to making governance more accessible and understandable for all users. 3. Mission alignment Our project directly addresses the mission to "Develop non-technical solutions for increasing both voter and token participation in the DAO" by transforming voting into an engaging, gamified process. By making governance more accessible and rewarding, we aim to attract new participants and encourage consistent engagement from existing voters. This approach targets both increasing the number of active voters and boosting the percentage of tokens used in voting. Our focus on user engagement helps overcome common barriers to participation, such as lack of understanding or interest. Ultimately, this creates a more vibrant and participatory DAO ecosystem, directly fulfilling the mission's goals. 4. Novelty What makes our project unique is that we're taking a proven idea from Web2 - gamification and loyalty programs - and bringing it to Web3 governance. We're keeping it simple and fun, but also competitive. Users will want to check the app weekly to see how they're doing. Plus, bleu've already built an AI tool that gives easy-to-understand summaries of complex voting info. It's not just about reminding people to vote; we're giving them real reasons to want to participate. By mixing familiar engagement tools with blockchain tech, the idea is to make participating in governance something more people actually look forward to/are interested in. 5. Will the project be open source? Yes. bleu is committed to transparency and open-source development - all our web3 projects are open-source and can be found in our GitHub . 6. Free or fee-based for end users? GovQuests should remain free forever. In fact, users will even earn rewards for participating and engaging in the Optimism governance. 7. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Yes, GovQuests is built on top of other web3 protocols like Farcaster and EAS, bleu's GovSummarizer and external APIs such as Agora.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and differentiation We've searched the Optimism ecosystem for similar projects. We found mentions of Lighthouse, but it appears to be discontinued. Layer3 provides a platform for projects to create and incentivize quests but it's not governance focused. All that said, we've been unable to verify any current competitors offering a similar gamified approach to governance participation. bleu's differentiation is creating a positive flywheel that encourages users to participate in Optimism governance. In order to achieve that, we are going to: 1: lower entry barriers by educating users with governance summaries; 2. make voting enjoyable with a gamified experience; 3. reward and incentivize participation. Current user base and estimation method To estimate the potential for increasing voter participation, we compare active voters and OP used for voting against the total number of holders and circulating supply. With approximately 1 billion OP tokens in circulation and the goal of reaching a 100 million votable supply, there is substantial room for growth. Currently, over 1M OP holders exist, but only 1k-2k addresses typically vote on the most relevant proposals ( Dune ).

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** 1.Steps to increase user interaction Implement a user-friendly interface with clear onboarding Push notifications for voting reminders and timely updates Introduce rewards and achievements to encourage regular participation Provide AI-generated summaries to make complex votes more accessible Regularly update leaderboards to foster healthy competition Host community events or challenges to boost engagement 2.Target audience characteristics New or inactive token holders unfamiliar with the voting process Experienced users seeking more engaging governance participation Community members who want to stay informed but find current methods time-consuming Users interested in gamified experiences and competitive elements Token holders looking for additional incentives to participate in governance Delegator who want to find users to delegate their voting power 3.User interaction with Optimism Users will connect their Optimism wallets to access the platform votes considered are on the Optimism network Users can earn OP tokens as part of the gamification rewards Users will gain a deeper understanding of Optimism's ecosystem through active participation Increased engagement may lead to users exploring other Optimism-based projects and services 4.Competitors on Optimism Competitors have been listed in the Market Analysis section.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** oeth:0xa41214012d4462ecBB0724673897Ee0dCc0fDF49

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 1 Gov Participation) # of addresses delegating for the first time
- **Fill out your metric objective:** 100 address delegating for the first time

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** 1.Size of request and justification We request 25,000 OP for the complete development, deployment, and initial maintenance of the Optimism GovQuest. 80% of this budget are for: development and deployment, UI/backend development, infrastructure costs for 2 years, integrations with existing Optimism infrastructure, user documentation and training materials, and initial post-launch support and maintenance. 20% is for user incentives. The project will be a gamified experience, therefore we want to reward the users when completing milestones 2.Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap) UI definition -  user interface design on figma. Ensure intuitive navigation and appealing visual elements. Frontend implementation - Develop responsive web interface. Implement wallet connection, user profile, leader board and streak UI. Points and Rewards system - Design and implement core voting reward mechanism. Integrate with Agora to track user votes accurately to then give points. Based on milestones user can receive a reward (e.g. EAS, tier, tag or OP tokens). Milestone management Seasons Streak system - Develop logic for tracking consecutive voting participation. Implement bonus point allocation for maintaining streaks. Leaderboard - Create a dynamic leaderboard displaying top voters. Implement real-time updates and a user ranking system. Tier system - Design progression tiers. Default leaderboard is only against the user's own tier. Push notification - Set up a notification system for voting reminders and updates. Explore with telegram and warpcast. Integration with OP AI Tools - Connect to OP AI tool for voting Season recaps. With the use of push notifications send it to the user. 3.OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives) 80% to cover development cost - 20kOP. Tokens shall be sent to bleu's OP multisig after 1 year lockup. One part-time contributor responsible for the analytics, running incentives, promoting the app, etc. One full-time UI/UX designer for 1 month; One full-time contributor to develop the project for 3 months, with support from the rest of bleu's team. UI definition: 2.5kOP (10%) Frontend implementation: 1.25kOP (5%) Points and Rewards system: 5kOP (20%) Seasons Streak system: 3.75k OP (15%) Leaderboard Calculation: 2.5kOP (10%) Tier system: 2.5kOP (10%) Push notification: 2.5kOP (10%) 20% to incentivize beginner users - 5kOP. Rewards for achieving beginner milestones (e.g., voting for 2 weeks in a row) with small amounts of OP. Tokens shall be sent to bleu's OP multisig every OP Season to be the funds of reward 4.Token distribution timeline 20k OP for development and operational costs will be locked for 1 year; 5kOP Incentive tokens will be distributed between seasons within 1 year 5k OP for incentives will be distributed every voting cycle (3 weeks); We're aiming to spend current budget (5k OP) within 1 year; That means each voting cycle has about 275 OP for incentives; Incentives should be used to incentivize voting from new delegates; 5.Sustainability post-incentives The only feature affected by post-incentives will be the OP rewards for new users. All other gamification elements will continue to operate. But probably money is the thing that will bring most users. To address this there are few options: Community-driven support Implement an optional donation feature for grateful delegators and active users who wish to contribute to the platform's continuation and community growth. Add widgets on the platform to accept any value of donation for app wallet so everyone can see the transactions. Therefore, the donations will be used directly for the OP rewards Demonstrated value for future Retro funding As said before, a tool will analyze users' navigation on our platform. So we will be able to track how many clicks there were in each proposal and which wallets transformed into a vote. we will have conversion rates and metrics Based on the project's metrics mentioned above, we can present justified requests for additional incentives from OP on a retrofunding Stretch Goal: Use idle/non-delated OP as rewards Optimism has OP tokens sitting idle that aren't actively used for voting. If GovQuests proves valuable, we could propose a structured initiative to Optimism Governance where these idle funds are used as rewards. For example, regular voters could gain more voting power. While the feasibility is uncertain, it's a stretch goal we all have in mind. Observation: The other incentives will continue to work, such as badges, community challenges etc. A future idea is to add educational challenges, duolingo like. So there is more information for users to feel confident about voting & rewarding experience without funds. 6.Additional accountability info (smart contract addresses, wallet addresses, etc.) bleu's OP multisig: 0xa41214012d4462ecBB0724673897Ee0dCc0fDF49

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** 1.Problem solved for Optimism Our project addresses the critical issue of low governance participation in Optimism's ecosystem. By gamifying the voting process, we're tackling both low voter turnout and under utilization of tokens in governance decisions. 2.Value proposition We offer a platform that transforms DAO governance into an engaging experience, directly increasing vote counts and token participation. Our AI-powered summaries enhance voter understanding, leading to more informed decisions. Regarding the metric specified on the mission: Milestone will be added to reward new voters with a multiplier according to to certain token participation ranges. This way the reward & points will stimulate those metrics Balance between first-time beginners and beginners. We don't want people creating wallets just farm the incentives instead of contributing to the OP ecosystem. 100 address delegating for the first time - dune says top500+ delegates have 0-2.5k voting power, this is the profile we're looking to attract to our app if we attract 100 addresses, that's up to 250k tokens. All 10 mission requests from Intent #1's missions requests have north-star metrics that if fulfilled should contribute to voting supply/governance activity. 3.Growth potential for Optimism By fostering an engaged token holder base, our project can attract new users to the Optimism ecosystem. Improved governance participation may lead to better network decisions, potentially accelerating Optimism's growth and adoption. 4.Commitment to building on Optimism Our project is specifically designed for the Optimism ecosystem. We're committed to long-term development on this platform, with plans to evolve our solution in line with Optimism's needs and community feedback. 5.Deployment status (exclusively on Optimism, on Optimism and other networks, not yet deployed, etc.): Not yet deployed, but it will be exclusively on Optimism.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** NA
- **Contributions from non-team members:** NA

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Locked 1 year', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Not Completed', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Locked 1 year', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 25', 'cycle': 'Not Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 25', 'op_tokens_request': 'Not Completed', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Locked 1 year', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Not Completed', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Locked 1 year', 'completed': 'Cycle 25', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Locked 1 year', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Not Completed', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Locked 1 year', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 25', 'cycle': 'Not Completed', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 25', 'op_tokens_request': 'Not Completed', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Not Completed', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'completed': 'Cycle 25', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'cycle': 'Cycle 25', 'completed': 'Not Completed', 'title': 'UI Design', 'source_of_truth': 'https://github.com/bleu/optimism-gov-quests', 'op_amount': '2500', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
