# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Pyth Network: Infrastructure Subsidies
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/pyth-network-infrastructure-subsidies-07445213474602608

## Contact Info

- **Email:** MattDeFi@protonmail.com
- **Telegram:** MattLosq
- **X handle:** PythNetwork
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** https://discord.gg/PythNetwork
- **Demo:** Live Project (Oracles)
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 70000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0x6c7D7714F536Cbdb0b3B0FDDea2747d5C4B2668E
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** if the OP is not in wallets anymore, it has been spent

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Yes - Pyth Oracles have been audited by some of the most trusted firms in the industry. Pyth Audit Info - https://github.com/pyth-network/audit-reports/blob/main/2023_07_26/EVM Patch Review.pdf
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** 1 - Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: The Pyth Network is a first-party financial oracle network designed to provide low-latency market data to multiple blockchains securely and transparently. Pyth currently supports 400+ real-time price feeds across crypto, equities, ETF’s, FX pairs, and commodities, and has facilitated more than $100B in total trading volume across over 50 blockchain ecosystems. This project aims to subsidize Pyth's high-frequency, low-latency oracle infrastructure on Optimism. By covering gas costs for protocols using Pyth oracles we seek to lower the barrier to entry to using high quality oracles that are highly gas efficient and optimized for high frequency usage. 2 - Success potential: (Explain why your project is likely to succeed. Consider market demand, technical feasibility, and your team's ability to execute) Success potential: Pyth Network is an established provider of high-quality price feeds, already integrated with major DeFi protocols. Expanding this data to protocols across OPM is critical in supporting new DeFi projects across derivatives, perps, lending, and so on. We have integrated with the following OP Mainnet Protocols : Synthetix, Polynomial, Perp Protocol, TLX, Unitus, Pika, Mummy, Synonym, Angle. Superchain based apps : Ionic, Avantis, Synfutures, FlatMoney, BMX, YFX, FWX, Vela, LayerBank. In the wider DeFi ecosystem, we secure about $5B in capital utilizing our oracles. Links & oracle data provided by DeFiLlama . 3- Mission alignment: (Describe how your project aligns with the goals of the mission request you are applying for.) Mission alignment: This project directly aligns with the mission to experiment with infrastructure subsidies. By subsidizing gas costs for oracle usage, we're reducing barriers to entry for DeFi users & protocols on Optimism. 4- Novelty: (Highlight what makes your project unique or innovative.) Novelty: Pyth is novel in its approach as it utilizes high-frequency low latency pull-based oracles, which helped to support Synthetix Perps on OP & Base and minimize frontrunning. We pioneered the low latency pull-based oracles years ago, which have now become industry standard across DeFi for high frequency Perps protocols and other users that demand high quality onchain oracles. Additionally, Pyth supports 500+ feeds with 100+ data providers. 5- Will the project be open source? Yes, it is fully open source - https://github.com/pyth-network/pyth-crosschain/tree/main/target_chains/ethereum/contracts/contracts 6- Free or fee-based for end users? Pyth's oracle service is free for end users (1 wei cost), with only gas costs typically incurred. This subsidy program aims to offset these gas costs for protocol & users. 7 - Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Yes, Pyth's oracle infrastructure is permissionless and highly composable. It can be integrated with various DeFi protocols on Optimism, including lending platforms, DEXs, derivatives protocols, and more, enhancing their functionality with reliable, high-frequency price data. It's worth noting that certain Pyth price update types are shared among all dApps on the same chain. This means if Protocol A updates the ETH/USD price on OPM, any other protocol can access this value at no cost.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors & Differentiation: Major competitors in the oracle space include Chainlink, Redstone, and  others. Pyth differentiates itself by offering high-frequency, low-latency price feeds without additional fees. Pyth also differentiates itself as it’s a fully permissionless oracle, meaning that anyone can start doing price updates (or reading them onchain) by themselves without asking permission. Thanks to the pull demand, Pyth also offers over 500 price feeds throughout the OP Superchain. Current User Base & Estimation Pyth is integrated with numerous protocols across various blockchains. Specifically on Optimism , the Pyth Price Feeds empower the leading derivatives protocols such as Synthetix, Polynomial, Perpetual Protocol, TLX, Mummy Finance, Pika, Unidex and Lynx. Throughout the OP Superchain, the Pyth oracle also secures leading applications like Ionic, Avantis, Flat Money, BMX, YFX, BakerFi, Vela, FWX, or Synonym. There has been on average 10,000 price updates requested daily on the OP Superchain — Dune . On 18 EVM chains tracked by Dune, there are about 100,000 price updates requested daily — Dune . Outside of the OP Superchain, Pyth is the leading on oracle for ecosystems like Solana, Aptos, Sui, NEAR, Core or Injective where billions of TVL are secured and millions of updates are performed everyday ( Solana , Aptos ).

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to increase user interaction: Implement gas subsidies for protocols using Pyth oracles on Optimism [Edited out "Superchain"] Provide enhanced support and documentation for optimal oracle usage Regularly publish performance and cost-saving reports Target audience characteristics: DeFi protocols requiring high-frequency, low-latency price data New projects launching on Optimism seeking cost-effective oracle solutions Existing protocols looking to switch to more efficient oracle providers User interaction with Optimism: Users will benefit from more reliable and cost-effective DeFi applications on Optimism, as protocols can access high-quality price data without incurring significant costs. This will lead to improved user experiences and potentially lower fees for end-users. Competitors on Optimism: Primarily: Chainlink & Redstone
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** Pyth oracle contract on OP mainnet is 0xff1a0f4744e8582DF1aE09D5611b887B6a12925C Pyth oracle contract on Base mainnet is 0x8250f4aF4B972684F7b336503E2D6dFeDeB1487a Pyth oracle contract on Mode mainnet is 0xA2aa501b19aff244D90cc15a4Cf739D2725B5729

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) # of active addresses interacting with grantee’s contracts
- **Fill out your metric objective:** Increase the number of active addresses interacting with Pyth Data Contracts by 5x across OPM, Base, Mode (Additional context to be added in the comments here)

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of request and justification: We request 70,000 OP tokens, allocated as follows: 70,000 OP: Direct gas subsidies for protocols using Pyth oracles With oracle updates costing in between $0.01 (Mode and Base) and $0.70 (Optimism), 70,000 OP would cover (exclusively) up to 12 millions price updates on Base or Mode or 180,000 on Optimism. Note: Superchain stats are purely informational, as this grant is only being distributed to OPM users. Assuming an equal distribution of the OP grant on only OPM, this would rebate approx 170k oracle calls. It is important to note that there are 2 different types of Pyth Price updates: Price updates that are shared among all protocols on the same chain Price updates that are NOT shared with other protocols on the same chain You can easily spot the differences as shared updates show on the regular transactions panel of the Pyth contract and NOT shared updates are displayed as internal transactions . Internal transactions are most often used by perpetual protocols as they update the price and fill the users’ trades in the same block. The specific function called is parsePriceFeedUpdates . Meanwhile, borrow-lending protocols use the regular transaction types with either updatePriceFeeds or updatePriceFeedsIfNecessary functions ; and these price updates are commonly shared by all applications on the same chain. With the objectives of this infrastructure subsidy request to benefit as much protocols as possible, it is important to favor the reimbursement of applications doing price updates that ARE shared throughout the chain. Thus we suggest rebating 100% of the gas costs incurred by dApps doing price updates that are shared, and limiting to 50% the gas rebate for protocols doing price updates that are solely used by them. This allocation and repartition will significantly reduce the cost barrier for protocols to use high-quality oracle data on Optimism, fostering ecosystem growth and innovation. Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap): Note: This grant program will be opt-in by protocols on OPM. We will distribute OP to protocols and then they will handle distribution to end users. Month 1: Launch Gas Subsidy Program for Existing Pyth Users Set up and launch the gas subsidy program for existing protocols using Pyth oracles on Optimism Month 2: Onboard New Protocols and Expand to Superchain Onboard 5 new protocols / support existing OPM users , leveraging Pyth oracles with the subsidy program. Month 6: Develop Integration Plan for Superchain Infrastructure Deliver a comprehensive plan for integrating Pyth with Superchain infrastructure, focusing on cross-chain interoperability. Month 6: Complete Subsidy Distribution & Report Conclude the gas subsidy program and growth incentives, with a final report detailing the program's impact and gas savings. OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives): 100% (70,000 OP): Direct gas subsidies Token distribution timeline: Six month trial distributing the 70,000 OP as infrastructure subsidies to rebate gas costs. Depending on activity this may last from 3 to 6 months. Sustainability post-incentives: The subsidy program aims to demonstrate the value of Pyth oracles to the Optimism ecosystem. Post-incentives, we expect increased adoption due to demonstrated cost savings and performance benefits. As a comparison, Pyth benefitted from an ARB grant part of the LTIPP program, and the use of the incentives were similar to those stated here. Incentivization happened from June to August and have stopped since. We can see a significant increase of price updates requested from May to August (over 70,000 price updates requested in a single day), and from September (when incentives stopped), the metrics are still 2 fold since May (5,000-7,000 to about 15,000 daily price updates). Additionally, as gas costs have come down further and further, plus increased usage from additional chains using non ETH DA/Execution, we expect these costs to continue to decrease. Additional accountability info: N/A

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem solved for Optimism: Pyth's infrastructure subsidies address the high costs associated with accessing reliable, high-frequency oracle data on Optimism. By reducing this barrier, we enable more protocols to build and scale on Optimism, enhancing the network's DeFi ecosystem. Value proposition: By subsidizing gas costs for oracle usage, we make OP one of the most cost-effective chains for DeFi development requiring high-quality price feeds. This will attract more protocols, users, and liquidity to the Optimism ecosystem. Growth potential for Optimism: Reducing infrastructure costs for DeFi protocols can lead to a significant increase in development activity on Optimism. As more protocols leverage Pyth's subsidized oracles, we expect to see growth in TVS, user activity, and innovative DeFi applications on the network. Commitment to building on Optimism: Pyth Network is committed to long-term development on Optimism and the Superchain. This subsidy program demonstrates our dedication to fostering growth on Optimism. We plan to continually enhance our services and explore integration with Superchain infrastructure and support Superchain powered protocols. Deployment status : Deployed on OP, Base, Mode, and across the Superchain.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** No
- **Contributions from non-team members:** Matt will be the Point of Contact for this proposal.

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Launch Gas Subsidy Program for Pyth Data Users', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 10', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Launch Gas Subsidy Program for Pyth Data Users', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 10', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Mission application', 'title': 'Launch Gas Subsidy Program for Pyth Data Users', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 10', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Mission application', 'completed': 'Mission Reviewers', 'title': 'Launch Gas Subsidy Program for Pyth Data Users', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 10', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Mission application', 'cycle': 'Mission Reviewers', 'completed': 'Mission Reviewers', 'title': 'Launch Gas Subsidy Program for Pyth Data Users', 'source_of_truth': 'N/A', 'op_amount': 'N/A', 'op_deployment_date': 'Oct 10', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
