# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Scout Game: onchain gamified talent referral platform
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/scout-game-onchain-gamified-talent-referral-platform-1895533757313108

## Contact Info

- **Email:** alex.poon@charmverse.io
- **Telegram:** @alexpoon_hk
- **X handle:** @scoutgamexyz
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** N/A
- **Demo:** https://youtube.com/shorts/zQsOpodTMhE?feature=share
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 20000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0x93326D53d1E8EBf0af1Ff1B233c46C67c96e4d8D
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** If the OP is not in the wallet anymore, it has been spent

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** No
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: The Scout Game is an onchain talent referral platform that leverages gamification to create meaningful and effective referrals within the onchain ecosystem. By aligning the economic interests of participants, the game motivates individuals to scout and endorse top talent, particularly builders, who are critical to the growth and innovation of onchain communities. The game seeks to revolutionize how talent is discovered, engaged, and supported onchain, addressing a significant gap in builder outreach, engagement, and reputation-building. Through this innovative approach, the Scout Game aims to foster a stronger, more interconnected ecosystem of contributors in Optimism and the Superchain. Anyone can scout a builder by buying NFTs representing that builder A builder can claim Scout Gems and Attestations after performing Qualified Actions like a merged pull request in a Qualified GitHub Repository At the end of each week, Builders are ranked by the number of Gems they collect. Scout Points are allocated to the top-ranking Builders and the Scouts who hold their NFTs Scouts and Builders can claim Scout Points at the end of each week How it Works for Builders Builders in the Scout Game gain recognition by actively contributing to approved projects. Each season lasts three months, and builders earn Scout Points by completing specific tasks tied to their contributions. How it Works for Scouts Scouts participate by collecting NFTs associated with top builders during each season. As these builders excel—by contributing to codebases—Scouts accumulate points. The more successful your chosen builders, the more points you earn. Scouts are not only identifying stars—they are earning real rewards as their builders thrive. By accumulating Scout Points, you can exchange them for credits to scout even more builders, boosting your standing within the game and increasing your potential rewards. Success Potential There is a growing need for effective talent discovery and engagement solutions within the onchain ecosystem. Builders are vital to the success and innovation of decentralized technologies, yet there has been little innovation in how they are identified, engaged, and rewarded. The Scout Game aims to bring new builders to Optimism and the Superchain in a fun and engaging way. We launched a waitlist on September 16. By September 24, we had 7K+ Scout and 800+ Builder signups. Finally, The team behind the Scout Game has extensive experience in the onchain space. It has contributed to multiple areas of Optimism, including the CharmVerse Grants platform and the SUNNYs Awards. Their deep understanding of the blockchain ecosystem and expertise in product development, marketing, and community building ensure they are well-equipped to execute and scale the Scout Game effectively. The team’s focus on using existing tools and frameworks also demonstrates a practical and strategic approach to development, further increasing the project’s chances of success. Founders of Scout Game Alex Poon (Co-founder, CEO) Alex is a Citizen House badge holder. He is responsible for growth and BD at CharmVerse. He is a 3X founder. Prior to CharmVerse, he co-founded x.ai( http://x.ai/ ), an AI-powered personal assistant (raised $45M, exit), and Visual Revenue, a real-time predictive analytics platform for editorial teams (exit). He holds a patent on a content placement algorithm. Earlier in his career, as an engineer at Lockheed Martin, he built software for unmanned aerial vehicles. Matt Casey (Co-founder, CTO) Matt is responsible for tech and product at CharmVerse. He co-founded x.ai ( http://x.ai/ ) with Alex and has been working with Alex since 2012, across 3 companies. As the CTO of x.ai ( http://x.ai/ ), he architected and built the initial product and scaled it to the company’s exit. Prior to CharmVerse, he taught himself solidity, wrote a smart contract, minted, and sold a set of NFTs. Chris Carella (Co-founder, Product) Chris is a Citizen House badge holder, the founder of PurpleDAO, a DAO that supports the Farcaster ecosystem, and a Noun holder + delegate. He has been one of the primary small grants funders of the Farcaster ecosystem since Nov 2022 through PurpleDAO. Mission Alignment The Scout Game aligns with the mission request by fostering a more robust and interconnected onchain ecosystem, directly supporting Optimism's goals of scalability, innovation, and community engagement. By bringing talent referrals onchain, the Scout Game encourages decentralized, community-driven discovery and support of builders, who are crucial to advancing the ecosystem's development. Moreover, the Scout Game leverages existing infrastructure on Optimism to ensure smooth integration and development. By utilizing open-source Game Development Frameworks (GDFs), issuing attestations from Ethereum Attestation Service for key events in the Scout Game, and using Decent for digital asset creation and payments, the game reduces friction and accelerates development. Additionally, incorporating account abstraction with Farcaster login provides a seamless user experience, further enhancing its technical feasibility. The game’s focus on meaningful engagement and reputation-building aligns with Optimism’s vision of a thriving, participatory community where talent is recognized, rewarded, and motivated to contribute to the ecosystem’s growth. It grows the Optimism developer ecosystem via a fantasy-sport-like mechanism. Novelty The Scout Game is unique in its talent discovery and engagement approach, which leverages gamification to create an onchain referral system. Unlike traditional referral methods, the game incentivizes participants to make meaningful referrals by aligning their economic interests with the success of the talent they endorse. This innovative use of onchain mechanics ensures that only those with a genuine stake in the outcome are motivated to refer, creating a more effective and trustworthy system for identifying top talent. This combination of economic incentives, gamification, and technical integration makes the Scout Game a novel tool for revolutionizing builder outreach and reputation-building in the onchain space. Will the project be open source? Yes. The CharmVerse Team, creators of the Scout Game, is committed to building open source software. Scout Game is no different. Our aim is to encourage community collaboration and further development. Free or fee-based for end users? The Scout Game will be free to play, with opportunities for users to purchase digital assets (NFTs) and transact within the game. Twenty percent of the proceeds from NFT purchases will be distributed to the builders. Furthermore, builders and scouts will earn Scout Points and other assets based on their performance in qualified actions and scouting. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Yes, the Scout Game is highly composable with other projects on Optimism. It integrates with Optimism's EAS attestations to determine grant winners and uses Decent, a project on Optimism, to create digital assets and handle payments. Additionally, it employs account abstraction through a Farcaster login, allowing users to transact seamlessly with wallets connected to their Farcaster accounts. This composability ensures easy integration and collaboration with other projects within the Optimism ecosystem.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and differentiation: The Scout Game differentiates itself from traditional recruiting agencies or projects like Aspecta and Ice Breaker by focusing on a unique combination of onchain talent referrals and gamification. Unlike Aspecta, which focuses on builder recognition and community engagement through staking and productivity attestations, the Scout Game aligns economic incentives by encouraging participants with "skin in the game" to make meaningful referrals. This approach ensures that talent identification and endorsement come from a place of genuine vested interest. Unlike Ice Breaker, which builds an open professional network through endorsements and verifiable credentials, the Scout Game creates a dynamic and gamified experience that motivates active participation in talent referral, fostering deeper engagement and a more innovative method for builder discovery. Current user base and estimation method: The Scout Game has not yet launched, but our waitlist has gathered 7k+ signups, supported by prominent influencers within the Farcaster ecosystem. The game will initially target users on Farcaster, leveraging the network effect created by these influencers to drive early adoption and participation. The user base estimation will be based on the number of waitlist sign-ups, social media engagement metrics, and the influencer reach on Farcaster, allowing the team to measure and predict initial traction and growth potential accurately. Our estimation is that thousands of players will sign up to the waitlist based on the influencer reach supporting the launch as well as the way the waitlist system is built.

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to increase user interaction: To increase user interaction, the Scout Game will implement a gamified system with incentives for active and valuable participation, earning users points and other digital assets. Initial engagement will be driven by leveraging key influencers on Farcaster, who will promote the game and encourage sign-ups. Additionally, the game incorporates interactive elements like leaderboards, rewards for top referrers, and community-driven challenges to maintain ongoing user interest and activity. We also plan to ramp up marketing campaigns across various audiences as the game gains traction. The OP user incentives will be awarded to Builders and their NFT holders for contributing to the OP ecosystem. On a weekly basis, code contributions (merged Pull Requests) to projects in the OP ecosystem will be rewarded OP tokens in addition to Scout Points. Target audience characteristics: The Scout Game targets onchain enthusiasts, developers, and community members who are actively involved in the ecosystem, particularly those engaged with the Farcaster platform. The audience includes early adopters of decentralized technologies, influencers, and builders who are interested in innovative methods for talent discovery, engagement, and reputation-building. These users value transparency, community involvement, and economic incentives aligned with their participation. User interaction with Optimism: Users of the Scout Game will interact with Optimism by engaging in onchain activities such as making referrals, endorsing builders, and participating in gamified challenges. The game integrates with Optimism’s EAS to issue attestations for key in-game activities and uses Decent, a project on Optimism, to create digital assets and handle payments. This encourages users to perform transactions on Optimism, enhancing network activity and adoption. Competitors on Optimism: We haven't identified direct competitors on Optimism. Traditional recruiting agencies are not onchain. Aspecta focuses on the BNB chain, while Icebreaker does not seem to be affiliated with any specific chain.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** N/A

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) Total amount of gas fees generated from grantee’s contracts
- **Fill out your metric objective:** - 500 of Farcaster ID signed up for Scout Game
- 2,500 Builder NFTs minted
- 5M Gwei of gas fees

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of request and justification: We request 20k OP to sponsor Seasons 1 of the Scout Game to cover user incentives only. This funding will incentivize builders to contribute to Optimism ecosystem projects. Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap): The roadmap includes the following phases: Phase 1: Kickoff Season 1 and user acquisition (3 months) – Launch the game on OP Mainnet and onboard initial users. The game will include OP's EAS attestations and implement account abstraction via Farcaster login. Phase 2: Distribute Incentives – Distribute matching OP incentives for Builders who contribute to OP ecosystem projects throughout the 3-month Season 1. OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives): 100% for user incentives and rewards during Season 1 to drive initial adoption and engagement. Token distribution timeline: The tokens will be distributed weekly via a claiming process throughout each 3-month season. Sustainability post-incentives: After the initial incentive period, the Scout Game will generate revenue through transaction fees, digital asset sales (NFTs), and potential premium features or services. These revenue streams will help maintain operations and fund further development. Additional accountability info (smart contract addresses, wallet addresses, etc.): 100% of the incentive funds will be held in 0x93326D53d1E8EBf0af1Ff1B233c46C67c96e4d8D. NFT Minting Contract is under development. Will provide the actual contract address as part of the milestone reporting.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem solved for Optimism: The Scout Game addresses the challenge of talent discovery and engagement within the onchain ecosystem, providing a unique solution to bring talent referrals onchain. By leveraging Optimism's infrastructure, the game helps attract and retain high-quality builders, fostering a stronger and more active community on Optimism. Value proposition: The Scout Game enhances Optimism’s ecosystem by creating a dynamic, gamified platform for talent referral, which encourages deeper user engagement and participation. It brings new users to Optimism, increases network activity, and strengthens the builder community, aligning with Optimism's goals of scalability, innovation, and a thriving decentralized network. Growth potential for Optimism: By driving user interaction and bringing talent discovery onchain, the Scout Game has the potential to significantly increase the number of transactions and active users on Optimism. As the game scales and attracts a wider audience, it will contribute to Optimism's growth by enhancing the network's reputation as a hub for builders and innovators. Commitment to building on Optimism: The CharmVerse team,  creators of the Scout Game, has been actively supporting the Superchain ecosystem for over a year by providing the platforms for the Token House Grants Council and the Citizen House Retro Funding. It is also one of the teams that built the SUNNYs awards. This ongoing involvement reflects our commitment to fostering growth and innovation within the ecosystem. We are committed to building and expanding the Scout Game on Optimism. Our integration with Optimism’s EAS attestations, use of its infrastructure, and the decision to leverage projects like Decent for digital assets and payments demonstrate our dedication to contributing to the Optimism ecosystem. Deployment status: The Scout Game is expected to deploy at the beginning of October. The initial deployment will fully integrate with Optimism's infrastructure to maximize its features and benefits, aligning with Optimism's ecosystem goals.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** No
- **Contributions from non-team members:** No

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Launch Scout Game', 'source_of_truth': 'Mixpanel dashboard', 'op_amount': 'Mixpanel Dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'User incentives 40% upfront', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': 'Launch Scout Game', 'source_of_truth': 'Mixpanel dashboard', 'op_amount': 'Mixpanel Dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 27', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Launch Scout Game', 'source_of_truth': 'Mixpanel dashboard', 'op_amount': 'Mixpanel Dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': 'Launch Scout Game', 'source_of_truth': 'Mixpanel dashboard', 'op_amount': 'Mixpanel Dashboard', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
