# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Strands
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/strands-22002497038881574

## Contact Info

- **Email:** bella@strands.finance
- **Telegram:** @bellaaa73
- **X handle:** @StrandsFinance
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** https://discord.gg/dsZbUfME
- **Demo:** https://docsend.com/v/hhj5f/strands_cme_trading_demo
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 50000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xB6B9E9e56AB5a4AF927faa802ac93786352f3af9
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** If the OP is not in the Strands’ wallet it has been distributed to end users.

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Yes, we are in the process of an audit with Spearbit/Cantina. Audit Status: 10/28/2024 - Audit completed Link to audit: https://docsend.com/v/hhj5f/report_cantinacode_strands_finance_0916
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: Strands is a global Fintech company that is using a proprietary ecosystem of novel smart contracts and transactional gateways to develop the most advanced traditional and decentralized institutional tools ever brought to market. Strands has two main product lines: Strands Singularity and Strands Connect . Strands’ vision is to build a future where Strands Singularity simplifies the trading, transactional, and financial landscape with a single, unified interface, seamlessly powered by the elite backend of Strands Connect enabling advanced RWA and derivatives trading capabilities. Strands is the first project, as of January 2024, to be certified as an ISV (Independent Software Vendor) which allows direct market access execution and then the tokenization of all CME group products (Agriculture, Energy, Equities, FX, Interest Rates, and Metals) not limited to just ETH and BTC. Strands has been using these tokens, commingled with other tokens, to create advanced Strategies and RWA pilot programs since January 2024. Success potential: This project has a high probability of success because the engineering team has already solved and implemented the majority of the major technical problems. Strands’ engineering team is composed of experienced professionals that have a long history of building tools at the highest level of ultra-low latency proprietary trading. The tools that Strands is building are not just a convenience, they are a necessity for professional traders to trade on any endpoint. Strands has already successfully completed its Alpha Phase 1 and is currently in Alpha phase 2. The products, 1Clicks and Algorithms, launched on OP during Alpha Phase 1 successfully proved Strands vision. Building on the success of Alpha Phase 1, Strands has expanded to Base Chain and Derive Chain (an Optimism Superchain) to kickoff Alpha Phase 2. Strands stats from Alpha Phase 1: Utilizing Lyra V1: During the Alpha Phase 1 on Optimism with a max TVL of roughly 15k(sUSD and USDC), Strands generated over: 3,504 trades on Optimism 13,214 (USDC and sUSD) in LYRA fees on Optimism 8,008,884 (USDC and sUSD) of Total Notional LYRA Volume on Optimism. Links to Smart contracts: 1clicks: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x6123f328ab34301b8d1ce3bf899f78b3b3d390fd#code Covered Call Vault: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0xf5d1381e70c009d11c9ac6d5b263312b668428a5#code Covered Call Algorithm: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x9ECe430b7AC53992a73D7a95E40dCDBf5eBe803C#code Short Gamma Vault: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0xde1ed749337f7f4f6bda104a6cc59677faa6c96b#code Short Gamma Algorithm: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x0842E250266506C5160c2762BA9AAE3e64917C36#code Long Gamma Vault: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0xD05DA7B4071BBF8a5c5Ef9fAA23a9D23cB943702#code Long Gamma Algorithm: https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x6c3f0f8265547cf3606a6ff31103cee207882b9c#code Strands Alpha Phase 2 (Pilot program) has seen significant success. Strands’ CME transactional Metrics: DMA (Direct Market Access) Executed and Tokenized Contracts: 18,731 Notional: $5,717,746 Verifiable here: Strands NFTs Account: 0x81476cEAE27466572beA9b3397F0EaB4A02f6792 (Base) Position: 0x0bFa5A013dBD0791f0F8171AFBAb45EDAA372dbF (Base) Ananke Capital Hedge Fund Repository: 0x9bfFe86BA69F7d91ae67f70896aeE42698E2D3DB (Base) Bookkeeper: 0x3835b46bb20c056A48a53e6C892811fbCC43862e (Base) Gatekeeper: 0x2E07BAE8644ca7dCc5312e74325a7AADB9437f58 (Base) RepositoryToken: 0x09Bc47bBEC265003AF4568a639915853721575C6 (Base) CME Covered Call Repository: 0xd68c2294d796D56F4CFF70505efECFfac8d9FC8b (Base) Bookkeeper: 0x2C5048218b414C7D1e1d590b9f0738Cf7349fEA7 (Base) Gatekeeper: 0xf91B8E2bD44Eb311d3cE3C6dA6493160942713B4 (Base) RepositoryToken: 0xA987c7D6f7cCf7344d2eCB9c17610CE0215cCBD0 (Base) CME Covered Put Repository: 0x3F1E5712AD609E533Ab041B1894048E8F0A29266 (Base) Bookkeeper: 0x9FA8Ca2013620263a68919Fc18B0667f21ddb76E (Base) Gatekeeper: 0x8E8C45037333aAd5749f3Dd203F1dad9e3d5C446 (Base) RepositoryToken: 0x231120C038f8F730e3a91Fad1028490B0D0C4041 (Base) Lyra Carry Trade Repository: 0xF2F48840E781b8d8cbAf3Cea2a4557228233C775 (Base) Bookkeeper: 0x173C3a71A436878ccdC3dC2B8eC5979307A3dd01 (Base) Gatekeeper: 0xE3737dE268a82763fE11E0F8ff4FFA4553823E8b (Base) RepositoryToken: 0x2B127aDF58EF871604F04bFE48ca6f1A2f1d901c (Base) Strands Segregated Fund Proxy StrandsAPI: 0x595d607A5ef39a0A2016D785e60dF74AFbc78cC6 (Derive) StrandsSFP: 0xBCDeA8BE038D7e2BFE45B5063C178FFB912f42f3 (Derive) Strands’ transactional Metrics on Derive.xyz: DMA (Direct Market Access) Executed Total Trades: 600 Total Volume: $256,862,255 Verifiable here: Contact: Derive Team cc @ksett Forum link: https://forums.derive.xyz/t/whitelisting-strands-deploying-address-on-lyra-chain/190 Github: https://github.com/Strands-Finance/sfp-pilot/ Architectural Document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SDCiAAfRbcNzfxQdOBV_nzalfyWX7WK-77duov8mT6c/edit?tab=t.0 The Strands team has 100+ years of experience in traditional and decentralized finance. Founders : Timothy Gorham Modern Architecture Design 18 years of experience at the highest level of the volatility trading industry, market making, algorithmic development, risk management, and custom hardware. https://www.linkedin.com/in/timothy-gorham/ Henry Wu Rails 15 years of experience designing and developing top-tier back office and other trading related systems. 5 years of smart contract design. https://www.linkedin.com/in/henry-wu-47b2475b/ Justin Swanson Product 11 years of experience designing full stack suites, open-source APIs, and next generation UIs. https://www.linkedin.com/in/justin-swanson-442b6854/ Strands has four core teams. Architecture, Product, Rails (Web2, Web3, Ultra-Low latency), and Expansion. The members of each are: Architecture Timothy Gorham Modern Architecture 18 years of experience Niraj Shah Senior Advisor Modern Architecture 19 years of experience Sean Dawson Senior Advisor Practical Mathematics 6 years of experience Product Justin Swanson Product 11 years of experience Yaseen Mustapha Product 5 years of experience Moh. Asfour Strategy and Fit 20 years of experience Wael Attili Digital Art and Design 20 years of experience Rails Henry Wu Rail Implementation 15 years of experience Eric Elvambuena Rail Implementation 17 years of experience Cameron Baker Smart Contract Design 9 years of experience Brice Floyd Rail Implementation 5 years of experience Expansion JAQ Fernandes Trading and Expansion 25 years of experience Dax Rodriguez Expansion 20 years of experience Ron Wetzel CFO 25 years of experience Bella Strands People 2 years of experience Mission alignment: Strands is fully aligned with the Experimental Derivatives Markets Mission request. The request states that “in order to effectively compete with other chains in derivatives trading, Optimism is in need of long-tail and experimental derivative markets.” The primary goal of this mission request is to incentivize the creation and trading of new experimental derivative markets on Optimism. Strands has launched a few new revolutionary concepts, Strands.SFP (tokenized segregated funds proxies) and is the first project to tokenize CME futures and options. Strands is using these innovations to create trading opportunities, algorithms, and RWA products that are unique to Strands and distinguish us from other Web3 projects. Strands wants to incentivize the trading and tokenization of CME futures and options alongside other tokens on Optimism. Once the incentives are initiated it will be another world first for Strands and Defi, and it will all happen on Optimism. Novelty: Strands differentiates from other projects in Web3 by building products that do not commercially exist. Strands is the first Independent Software Vendor (ISV) to blur the line between the Meta (smart contracts and systems of smart contracts) and Physical (Traditional) Spaces allowing our users seamless access to both universes from one unified interface. The products that Strands is building only exist at large Chicago-based proprietary trading firms and technologically advanced hedge funds. These systems exist behind walled gardens and before the development of web3 rails it was not possible to offer these tools outside of internal proprietary infrastructure. Strands has fundamentally changed this paradigm. Strands has two main product lines. Strands Singularity unified interface and Strands Connect backend. Strands’ vision is to build a future where Strands Singularity simplifies the trading, transactional, and financial landscape with a single, unified interface, seamlessly powered by the elite backbone of Strands Connect. Screenshot of Delta One pane from Strands Singularity showing live CME market data and order entry: Because Strands is the first project, as of January 2024, to be certified as an ISV (Independent Software Vendor) which allows direct market access execution and then the tokenization of all CME group products (Agriculture, Energy, Equities, FX, Interest Rates, and Metals) not limited to just ETH and BTC. Strands is able to give its users commercially unparalleled DMA (Direct market access) execution and tokenization capabilities. Strands is not only the first to bring the ability to DMA (Direct market access) execute and tokenize real world instruments starting with CME futures and options. It also created another significant concept that is going to be pivotal to the onboarding of institutional size users to web3, proxies. Now live in pilot, Strands.SFP is a unique and revolutionary concept. Details can be found in the white papers here: Strands Segregated Funds Proxy: A Foundation for Modern Finance Strands Digital Asset Custodial Account Proxies Will the project be open source? Strands smart contracts will be open source. Free or fee-based for end users? Strands is currently free. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Absolutely, that is the goal of Strands. We are Stranding all the unique endpoints and execution venues on optimism together and also building products that other developers and projects can utilize. The output of Strands’ primary contract, Strands Repository, that is in the final stages of audit will be fully composable with other projects on OP. (Thank you OP community for the subsidized Audit grant!) Strands is currently finalizing the production integration with Uniswap on Optimism and Base, and has just kicked off the integration with Velodrome. A Synthetix integration will be initiated once they integrate V3 Perps on Optimism. Link to our audit grant: https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/strands-finance-6264515341146633 Audit Status: 10/28/2024 - Audit completed Link to audit: https://docsend.com/v/hhj5f/report_cantinacode_strands_finance_0916 Additionally, Strands is integrated with Derive (an Optimism Superchain).

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and differentiation: From a technological perspective Strands competitors are Proprietary Trading firms and technologically advanced Hedge Funds. From a commercial perspective, there are no direct competitors that can provide a full-stack solution in the manner with which Strands can. Certain comparisons can be drawn across Strands separate business lines to traditional players. Strands Singularity’s potential competitors would be large proprietary trading firms and technologically advanced hedge funds. However, they have no commercial interest in providing their technology to be used outside of their own firms. Strands has every incentive to offer our technology to as many users as possible. Others might be traditional ISVs that connect to traditional endpoints but they cannot bridge the gap between the Meta Space and the Physical Space. Strands Connect is an ultra-low latency infrastructure backbone that links these two digital universes and may be compared to traditional Defi data providers, such as Chainlink and Pyth. However, Strands Connect will provide significantly more functionality than either of these data providers once at scale including ultra-low latency multi-asset transactional capabilities. Legal / Regulatory compliance: Strands executive team has over 100 years of experience building compliant trading systems and also running large proprietary trading firms in highly regulated markets. Including having extensive experience working with the CFTC and SEC/FINRA. Having such an accomplished executive team differentiates Strands from its competitors, particularly most Web3 firms who have little to no experience in this area. Strands has obtained all certifications required and satisfies all current regulatory requirements to conduct its business. This was a difficult process that significantly differentiates Strands from the rest of the market. Strands, as of January 2024, is fully certified as an ISV (Independent Software Vendor) which allows direct market access execution of all CME group products (Agriculture, Energy, Equities, FX, Interest Rates, and Metals) not limited to just ETH and BTC. Strands is able to give its users commercially unparalleled DMA (Direct market access) execution and tokenization capabilities. Additionally, Strands has obtained a full MDL (Market Data License) from the CME which allows for the redistribution of market data. This is a significant and difficult process to go through differentiating Strands even further. Current user base and estimation method: Strands is developing a set of tools that once fully online builders can interact with programmatically. Strands Connect will enable the highest volume traders/trading firms in the world to interact with Optimism network endpoints. Strands will increase revenue for the Optimism Sequencer by creating demand for blockspace, driving TVL, and onboarding new users to Optimism. Strands is building for professional traders. There is currently a pipeline of active users waiting to be onboarded.

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to increase user interaction: Receiving this grant will help to increase user interaction on Strands via the following steps: OP rewards will be distributed to users who tokenize, on Optimism, the CME futures and options they trade. A positive flywheel for user retention: The more users trade, the more of Strands’ additional smart contract based products they will use, the more sequencer activity they will generate. Activity will be stimulated with OP rewards. Total user growth: By rewarding users who tokenize CME futures and options on Strands, new users will be incentivized to use the protocol. Some of the OP will be used for Gas Fee rebates. Gas fees should be minimal, so to offset these costs for users, we’ve built in these incentives. Target audience characteristics: Strands target audience has the following core characteristics: Professional: Sophisticated users who are accustomed to trading in volume and using leverage. Target user is 10 - 1,000 up on the CME. Using the ETH future as an example (50 ETH multiplier) that is 500 to 50,000 ETH per click. Active: Users who are watching or interacting with the market on a regular basis. Trading most days, multiple times per day. Programmatic: Will use Strands Connect to trade programmatically. User interaction with Optimism: Strands, which deployed their alpha version on Optimism mainnet in October 2022, is Optimism native. Tokenizing CME futures and options on Optimism will attract professional traders who have not been exposed to web3, this grant will be a catalyst to onboard these traders to web3 and Optimism Network. Competitors on Optimism: Strands has no direct competitors on Optimism. Strands competitors are Proprietary Trading firms and technologically advanced Hedge Funds. However, they have no commercial interest in providing their technology to be used outside of their own firms. Strands has every incentive to offer our technology to as many users as possible. Others might be traditional ISVs that connect to traditional endpoints but they cannot bridge the gap between the Meta Space and the Physical Space like Strands Singularity can. Strands Connect is an ultra-low latency infrastructure backbone that links these two digital universes and may be compared to traditional Defi data providers, such as Chainlink and Pyth. However, Strands Connect will provide significantly more functionality than either of these data providers once at scale including ultra-low latency multi-asset transactional capabilities.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** Please list all addresses that will come in contact with the granted OP, e.g: Treasury Address: 0xB6B9E9e56AB5a4AF927faa802ac93786352f3af9

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) Total amount of gas fees generated from grantee’s contracts
- **Fill out your metric objective:** 250 million notional volume by the end of February 2025.
1 billion in notional volume tokenized on Optimism by the end of April 2025.

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of request and justification: Strands plan is to first offer these tools to professional traders, and then once out of Beta to everyone in the world. Strands’ toolset will enable the highest volume traders/trading firms in the world to interact with Optimism network endpoints. Target users are 10 - 1,000 up on the CME. Using the ETH future as an example (50 ETH multiplier) that is 500 to 50,000 ETH per click. Once accustomed to Web3 and utilizing Strands’ products these new users will increase revenue for the Optimism Sequencer by creating demand for blockspace and driving TVL higher. Additionally, Strands algorithms are synergistic and feed off of each other. Some will be online 24-7 constantly driving fees to Optimism. Securing this OP Grant will help accelerate Strands traction and incentivize early adoption. Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap): Receive grant on L2 recipient address After receiving the grant, Strands will commence the OP incentives program by promoting on various social media platforms and the Strands Singularity front-end. Distribute OP rewards to qualifying users on a monthly basis until all OP is depleted. OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives): 100% of the OP from this grant will go directly to users. We plan to distribute OP to users who tokenize their CME trades. Strands plans on tokenizing the entire spectrum of products traded on the CME. The size of these contracts for example are 1 ETH future is equivalent to 50 $ETH, 1 BTC future is equivalent to 5 $BTC, and 1 Crude Oil future is equivalent to 1,000 barrels etc. We plan to distribute 1 $OP per contract, for the first 25,000 contracts tokenized, and then 0.5 $OP to the next 50,000 contracts tokenized . This will motivate early adoption. Token distribution timeline: Tokens will be distributed until OP incentives are depleted, OP is distributed to users each Month. Sustainability post-incentives: Strands is not dependent on incentives. The OP rewards program can be viewed as a way to kick start our user base and accelerate growth. Additional accountability info (smart contract addresses, wallet addresses, etc.): The OP tokens will be held in our L2 recipient address and distributed to eligible users on a monthly basis. The distribution of these tokens to eligible users can be verified easily on-chain. L2 recipient address: 0xB6B9E9e56AB5a4AF927faa802ac93786352f3af9

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem solved for Optimism: The vast majority of active professional derivative traders in the world are not using Optimism. Strands will change this. Professional traders currently don't have the toolset to trade on-chain that we plan to offer. Strands toolset will enable the highest volume traders/trading firms in the world to interact with Optimism network endpoints. Strands will increase revenue for the Optimism Sequencer by creating demand for blockspace, driving TVL, and onboarding new users to Optimism. Strands is building for professional traders, and currently has a pipeline of active users. Securing this OP Grant will incentivize early adoption. Value proposition: As this article articulates, CME products are more popular than ever. https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2024/10/15/cash-margined-bitcoin-futures-are-more-popular-than-ever-as-open-interest-reaches-new-highs/ Strands toolset will drive fees to optimism by enabling the highest volume traders/trading firms in the world to interact with Optimism network endpoints. Additionally, Optimism will be the leading ecosystem for multi-asset tokenization, starting with CME futures and options! Growth potential for Optimism: At the time of this writing, there is currently roughly $63 billion in BTC futures notional open interest across centralized crypto exchanges, and $25.5 billion is on the CME. Additionally, there are trillions of notional open interest on other CME traded products. Strands offers significant growth potential for Optimism as professional traders/trading firms get acquainted with web3. Most professional traders currently don't have the tools to interact on-chain that Strands will offer on Optimism, Base, and Derive Chain. Commitment to building on Optimism: Optimism was the first network that Strands decided to build on, starting in Q4 of 2022. Strands plans to stay committed to building in the Optimism ecosystem for the foreseeable future. Deployment status (exclusively on Optimism, on Optimism and other networks, not yet deployed, etc.): On Optimism and two OP Superchains (Base and Derive)

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** No
- **Contributions from non-team members:** No

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Mission application', 'completed': 'Mission Reviewers', 'title': '250 million notional volume by the end of February 2025.', 'source_of_truth': 'Smart Contracts ', 'op_amount': 'Smart Contracts', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Mission application', 'cycle': 'Mission Reviewers', 'completed': 'Mission Reviewers', 'title': '250 million notional volume by the end of February 2025.', 'source_of_truth': 'Smart Contracts ', 'op_amount': 'Smart Contracts', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
