# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Toros Finance
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/toros-finance-24562712361559202

## Contact Info

- **Email:** mat@dhedge.org
- **Telegram:** @taminater
- **X handle:** https://twitter.com/torosfinance
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** https://discord.gg/2dJD4ftzCn
- **Demo:** https://toros.finance/
- **Other:** N/A

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 50000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0xDc1F5b81EeC7E6391Aeb6C8e5A2000D3A9AA8e6d
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** if the OP is not in the above contract then it has been sent to users

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Toros Finance is built on dHEDGE contracts. dHEDGE Audits can be found here
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief Description of the Project and What It Aims to Achieve: Toros Finance is a DeFi protocol offering yield vaults and leveraged tokens designed to maximize returns in an automated, decentralized manner. Notable vaults like Stablecoin Yield (USDy) and Perpetual Delta Neutral Yield (USDpy) have successfully integrated with protocols such as AAVE, Velodrome, 1inch, and Synthetix on Optimism, optimizing liquidity and providing yield-bearing opportunities. We aim to scale perp-backed leveraged tokens, built on Synthetix perpetual futures. These tokens offer seamless exposure to leveraged positions without manual rebalancing, making them accessible and efficient for traders. This grant will help expand our offerings and drive deeper engagement with Optimism's perpetual futures markets. Success Potential: Toros has a proven track record of building liquid, composable products in yield vaults and leverage tokens. Our integration with Synthetix for perp-backed products has shown strong user engagement and capital efficiency, backed by a current TVL of over $54 million and deep partnerships with protocols like AAVE, Velodrome, and 1inch. Key Stats: $145,057,000 in total deposits/withdrawals over the last 30 days Toros contributes around 42% of the open interest on Synthetix Perps V2 High demand for decentralized leverage products, and a growing market for perp-backed leverage tokens Fee rebate program to lower costs for leverage traders and drive cross-chain user migration. Mission Alignment: Toros aligns with Optimism’s mission by expanding perpetual futures markets through Synthetix perp-backed leverage tokens. Our products provide automated exposure with no liquidation risk, addressing the need for more efficient and accessible derivatives. Integrating deeply with protocols on Optimism, we contribute to liquidity and market participation growth across the ecosystem. Novelty: Toros’ perp-backed leverage tokens combine perpetual futures with automated rebalancing, eliminating manual management and liquidation risks. This accessibility opens the door for new traders, while our composability across protocols allows for advanced strategies like liquidity farming and delta-neutral yield generation. Open Source: Toros Finance is partially open-source due to dHEDGE being open-source. 3rd parties can utilize the open-source dHEDGE UI Kit to integrate Toros tokens into their custom UI. The dHEDGE UI Kit is built by the Toros team. Free or Fee-Based for End Users: Toros charges a small 2% annualized management fee on leverage tokens, a 0.25% entry fee and a 0.1% exit fee. However, we plan to use this grant to subsidize fees and increase accessibility for leveraged trading. Composability with Other Projects on Optimism: Toros products are highly composable within Optimism. Our leverage tokens (ERC-20) can be used in liquidity pools and farming strategies on platforms like Velodrome, while our yield vaults integrate with AAVE, Velodrome, 1inch, and Synthetix to optimize liquidity and yield.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Competitors and Differentiation: Toros Finance’s primary competitor on Optimism is TLX. While TLX offers a broader range of assets, Toros focuses on blue-chip assets like BTC, ETH, and SOL, achieving significant traction with $33 million in TVL on Optimism, significantly more than TLX. Toros complements TLX's growth by enhancing the derivatives market on Optimism, and receiving this grant will help drive key metrics such as TVL, user retention, and trading volume across the network. Current User Base and Estimation Method: Total TVL across all chains: $54 million Total TVL on Optimism: $33 million Total TVL in leveraged tokens on Optimism: $26 million Cumulative volume on Synthetix Perps: $719 million Over the last 30 days, Toros leveraged tokens have: 7,624 daily active users 41,673 total transactions Generated 1.022 ETH in gas fees Source: Dune - Toros Leverage Optimism Source: Synthetix-All Streamlit Toros is responsible for the following on Synthetix in the last 30 days: $222 million cumulative volume $127,800 cumulative exchange fees Source: Synthetix-All Streamlit

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** 1. Steps to Increase User Interaction: New User Attraction & Retention via Fee-Rebate Incentive Program: By subsidizing all vault fees with OP tokens, new users, especially those hesitant to engage in leveraged strategies due to high costs, will be encouraged to participate. The fee reimbursement creates a low-risk environment, allowing users to experience the benefits of Toros Finance leveraged tokens without worrying about upfront costs. This should lead to more long-term users once the grant incentives end. Marketing & Outreach: Toros Finance will promote the limited-time fee-rebate program on social platforms like X (formerly Twitter) and Discord, targeting users unfamiliar with leveraging or those avoiding it due to cost concerns. We will leverage our ecosystem to amplify reach by sharing across Discord servers and amplifying posts on social media. Longer Engagement Periods: Reducing ongoing fees will encourage users to engage in more trades and maintain their positions for longer durations. This will build user comfort and familiarity with Toros, resulting in long-term retention once the incentives end. 2. Target Audience Characteristics: New & Risk-Averse Leverage Users: Users who want to leverage crypto assets but are hesitant due to the fear of liquidation or lack of experience in managing positions manually. Toros’s leveraged tokens address these concerns by offering desired leveraged exposure without the need for manual management. Seasoned Traders: Experienced traders use our leveraged tokens to diversify their strategies. Passive Traders: Some users desire the automation and hands-off approach of our leveraged tokens. Others may not have the resources to manage their positions manually, and our products enable participation in leveraged markets without these constraints. 3. User Interaction with Optimism: Toros has been committed to supporting Optimism since its launch on the network in May 2022. Optimism holds ~61% of our TVL, or $33 million out of $54 million. This grant will enable us to further align with Optimism's KPIs, driving growth in TVL, user retention, trading volume, and transaction activity. 4. Competitors on Optimism: TLX is our main competitor on Optimism. While TLX offers a broader range of assets, Toros focuses on blue-chip assets like BTC, ETH, and SOL, with $2 million in TVL on Optimism—significantly more than TLX. Receiving this grant will allow us to complement rather than compete with TLX by enhancing the overall derivatives market on Optimism.
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** 0xDc1F5b81EeC7E6391Aeb6C8e5A2000D3A9AA8e6d - Optimism growth Multisig

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) Total amount of gas fees generated from grantee’s contracts
- **Fill out your metric objective:** 1 ETH of gas fees generated from Toros Leverage Tokens on Optimism during incentive period.

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size of Request and Justification: Receiving 50,000 OP tokens will enable Toros Finance to accelerate the adoption and growth of its leveraged tokens on Optimism, a key area for expanding the DeFi ecosystem. Leveraged products are critical in attracting sophisticated traders and larger volumes of capital. By offering these vaults in a non-liquidating, automated format, Toros provides a user-friendly alternative to traditional perpetual futures. These OP tokens will play a pivotal role in incentivizing new user participation and rewarding existing users, ultimately driving deeper liquidity and engagement in Optimism’s derivatives market. This boost in activity supports Optimism’s long-term goal of becoming a hub for decentralized derivatives trading, adding diversity to its DeFi offerings. With the rapid growth of derivatives markets, this grant positions Optimism to capture a significant portion of that market while ensuring sustainable user retention and network growth beyond the initial incentive period. Plan for Accomplishing the Project (Roadmap): After receiving the grant via our L2 recipient address, we will begin distributing OP rewards to qualifying users on a weekly basis, starting no later than three weeks after the tokens are received. In the weeks leading up to the incentive period, Toros and its ecosystem partners will broadcast the opportunity through our various social platforms and on our UI. OP Tokens Distribution (Percentages and Initiatives): OP tokens will be distributed to users on a weekly basis. The amount of tokens each user receives will be a function of total trading fees incurred within the epoch. Token Distribution Timeline: 20% of the tokens (10k OP) will be distributed each week over a five-week period. Sustainability Post-Incentives: Toros Finance leveraged tokens have grown significantly on Optimism without external incentives. Over the last 30 days, we have seen a total notional volume of $222 million and $127k cumulative exchange fees on Synthetix, with 253 daily active users and 984 total trades. This growth demonstrates the intrinsic value of our products, which continue to attract a wide range of users. With or without incentives, we expect this organic growth to continue.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem Solved for Optimism & Value Proposition: The receipt of this grant provides a distinct opportunity to significantly elevate derivatives trading activity on the Optimism network. By reducing user costs, the initiative aims to drive higher engagement with leveraged tokens and increased user retention, leading to greater transaction volume, liquidity, and overall interaction on the platform. This inflow of capital will help solidify Optimism’s position as a leading network for derivatives trading. Toros Finance enhances Optimism’s appeal by offering a diverse suite of advanced, automated strategies that streamline complex DeFi processes for users. Our strength lies in our variety of products, from yield-generating vaults to leveraged positions. Many users initially engage with one product type, then expand their strategies over time, building loyalty to both Toros and the Optimism network. While Total Value Locked (TVL) is often used as a success metric, for leveraged tokens, volume and cumulative transactions are more accurate indicators of success. Users frequently move in and out of leveraged positions to capitalize on market shifts. During idle periods, they often park their assets in yield-generating products, helping sustain TVL on the Optimism network. This ongoing engagement strengthens liquidity and encourages a steady flow of assets throughout the Optimism network. Growth Potential for Optimism: Total value locked (TVL) in DeFi derivatives has surged this year, starting at $1.8 billion and peaking at $3.84 billion by late July, reflecting a clear rise in user interest and the growth potential of on-chain derivatives. Toros Finance, as the market leader in leveraged tokens and the first protocol to deploy them on Optimism, aims to capitalize on this momentum. The 50,000 OP tokens requested will help us drive liquidity, user adoption, and Optimism’s presence in the on-chain derivatives market. Commitment to Building on Optimism: Optimism has been our chain of choice for developing and deploying new leveraged products, including our recent deployment of SOL leveraged tokens. There are currently nine leveraged tokens on Toros on Optimism, more than any other chain for Toros. Deployment Status: Toros leveraged tokens are deployed on Optimism, Arbitrum, Polygon, and Base.

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** N/A
- **Contributions from non-team members:** N/A

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Mission application', 'completed': 'Mission Reviewers', 'title': '$60M Deposits and Withdrawals Combined', 'source_of_truth': 'https://dune.com/dhedge/dhedge-v2-toros-optimism', 'op_amount': 'https://synthetix-all.streamlit.app/optimism', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Mission application', 'cycle': 'Mission Reviewers', 'completed': 'Mission Reviewers', 'title': '$60M Deposits and Withdrawals Combined', 'source_of_truth': 'https://dune.com/dhedge/dhedge-v2-toros-optimism', 'op_amount': 'https://synthetix-all.streamlit.app/optimism', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
