# Ether.fi OP Mainnet LRT Grant

# Basic Information

- **Project Name:** Uniswap: YBA Grant
- **Project Url:** https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/uniswap-yba-grant-4104398903684521

## Contact Info

- **Email:** pgovteam@gmail.com
- **Telegram:** Juanbugsun
- **X handle:** N/A
- **Discord/Discourse/Community:** N/A
- **Demo:** https://app.uniswap.org/swap?chain=optimism
- **Other:** The post is filled by the Uniswap Metagovernance Team which manages Uniswap DAOs governance related initiatives with Chains for Incentives. The team works with the Uniswap accountability committee and is financed by the Uniswap DAO to distribute incentives for Uniswap LP pools. Our team has past experience with delivering grants from partners for Uniswap LPs.

# Grant Request

- **OP request Locked:** 0
- **OP request for User Incentives:** 180000
- **L2 Recipient Address:** 
    - **Optimism:** 0x1026D3D219098D7b1B0A180F7E557DEeA7DA82C1
- **Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:** When the OP has been moved out of the multisig wallet and further presentation of the results will be created (Dune/Dashboard or similar)

# Project Details

- **If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A):** N/A
- **Do you have a code audit for your project?:** Yes, Uniswap has multiple audits from reputed auditors: OpenZeppelin: https://blog.openzeppelin.com/uniswapx-audit Trail of Bits: https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-core/tree/main/audits/tob
- **Please briefly answer all project details questions:** Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve: Uniswap, one of the most tenured AMMs and the leading decentralized exchange (DEX), aims to enhance the liquidity and trading experience for Yield Bearing assets (LSTs and Yield Bearing stablecoins) on Optimism by incentivizing on-chain liquidity and providing a seamless platform for users to trade these tokens. Incentivizing LRT tokens will ensure that users can restake, swap, and manage their tokens with minimal slippage and low transaction fees. We aim to increase adoption and usability of LRTs within Optimism, which are the basic investment instrument in the Crypto space for a safe avenue to invest. Through this initiative, Uniswap seeks to become the go-to platform for LST trading and liquidity, helping users unlock the full potential of Liquid staking assets while contributing to Optimism’s mission for Yield Bearing asset dominance. Success Potential: Market Demand: LSTs are the most popular avenue for investment in the defi users, there is a growing demand for a DEX that provides deep liquidity, low fees, and efficient trading mechanisms. Uniswap, with its battle tested infrastructure and brand trust among millions of Defi users  is uniquely positioned to provide liquidity for LSTs, enabling users to trade these assets seamlessly on Optimism. By offering users a familiar and trusted platform, Uniswap can meet the rising demand for LST trading while supporting their broader adoption across the DeFi ecosystem. Technical Feasibility: Uniswap is deployed and live on Optimism. Adding and incentivizing LST liquidity pools would build on this proven infrastructure, making it technically feasible to execute. Uniswap’s concentrated liquidity model (v3) allows liquidity providers to focus their capital on price ranges where trading is most likely to occur, maximizing the efficiency of LRT markets. Team’s Ability to Execute: The core infrastructure for Uniswap Dex is powered by Uniswap labs. Uniswap is in its V3 stage having run successfully and dominated the market for Years. A group of Uniswap DAO members will be the primary executors of this grant request. Among the team are  PGov, Arana Digital and AlphaGrowth. PGov, Arana and AlphaGrowth all have rich experience in executing successful incentive programs. Within the past few months, AlphaGrowth brought in additional 400M in TVL for Compound and 38M on Optimism. PGov and Arana Digital are members of the Uniswap accountability committee that manage different aspects of Uniswap DAO and participate in the metagovernance of other chains where Uniswap is deployed. Mission Alignment: Our intention of boosting LST LP positions on Uniswap directly aligns the the Mission request to help Optimism dominate the YBA Space Liquidity on Uniswap becomes a major factor for success of assets within the wider Optimism ecosystem. Major lending protocols and Dapps look for dex liquidity of YBAs in order to decide liquidation and other parameters. Will the project be open source? Yes, Uniswap is fully open source, and the code is publicly available on GitHub (https://github.com/Uniswap). Free or fee-based for end users? Uniswap protocol itself is completely free for end users, with no paywalls or access restrictions. Certain frontends, including the canonical Uniswap.org site, take a fee on volume but the core contracts are open source and free to use. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How? Uniswap’s composability is a core strength that will directly benefit the Optimism ecosystem. LST projects and other DeFi protocols can easily integrate with Uniswap’s liquidity pools to enable trading and liquidity provision for restaked tokens.

# Market Analysis:

- **Please briefly answer all market analysis questions:** Uniswap competitors on Optimism include Velodrome, Balancer and more. Where Uniswap stands out from the competition is its market dominance and brand. When users migrate from Mainnet to Optimism, the first DEX or Dapp they look for is Uniswap. Over the years, Uniswap has become a name associated with trust and reliability. Uniswap v3 introduced concentrated liquidity, allowing LPs to choose specific price ranges to provide liquidity, leading to higher efficiency and reduced impermanent loss. Uniswap is the dominant DEX on Optimism by a considerable margin. Uniswap share on Optimism DEXs is 60% compared to the next two most popular DEXs, Woofi and Velodrome, with 12% and 9% respectively. Here is the chart https://dune.com/queries/3956098/6656202 Uniswap Users Uniswap Monthly users on Optimism have been one of the highest in the OP ecosystem. For the month of June, the Monthly Active users (MAU) for Uniswap for the past year, Uniswap MAU have consistently stayed above 100K. Here is the Dune chart for Uniswap users on OP on a monthly basis

# Grant's impact

- **Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions:** Steps to Implement The Uniswap DAO will first decide through their governance which LRTs to incentivize. Then specific pools and composition will be allocated via Merkl and distributed to end users over the course of the initiative. Target Audience Characteristics There are two segments of users that we will be targeting Dex Users Mainstream Defi Users. Dexes are one of the most popular aspects of Decentralized finance. Over more than 100K users that use Uniswap every month will stand to benefit from the incentivization strategy. Liquidity Providers One of the primary targets for incentivization programs. Incentivising LPs creates deep liquidity pools which in turn facilitates trades with low slippage. Incentivising LPs is also a tested strategy to facilitate migration of mainnet liquidity to Optimism User Interaction with Optimism Uniswap liquidity providers (LPs) on Optimism can easily deposit liquidity by selecting their token pair, choosing a fee tier, and setting a price range for their position. LPs earn trading fees based on the volume of trades within their set price range, enhancing their capital efficiency. This process is facilitated through Uniswap’s web app with low transaction fees on Optimism. For more details, refer to the official guide here . Competitors on Optimism Uniswap competitors include Woofi and Velodrome. A full list of Uniswap competitors can be found here https://dune.com/queries/2006139/3319704
- **Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:** Uniswap competitors on Optimism include Velodrome, Balancer and more. Where Uniswap stands out from the competition is its market dominance and brand. When users migrate from Mainnet to Optimism, the first DEX or Dapp they look for is Uniswap. Over the years, Uniswap has become a name associated with trust and reliability. Uniswap v3 introduced concentrated liquidity, allowing LPs to choose specific price ranges to provide liquidity, leading to higher efficiency and reduced impermanent loss. Uniswap is the dominant DEX on Optimism by a considerable margin. Uniswap share on Optimism DEXs is 60% compared to the next two most popular DEXs, Woofi and Velodrome, with 12% and 9% respectively. Here is the chart https://dune.com/queries/3956098/6656202 Uniswap Users Uniswap Monthly users on Optimism have been one of the highest in the OP ecosystem. For the month of June, the Monthly Active users (MAU) for Uniswap for the past year, Uniswap MAU have consistently stayed above 100K. Here is the Dune chart for Uniswap users on OP on a monthly basis The OP from this grant will be sent directly to the following Gnosis Safe on Optimism: 0x1026D3D219098D7b1B0A180F7E557DEeA7DA82C1 This is the address of the Uniswap Metagovernance Program and has run similar incentive programs on Arbitrum there. We are using the same infrastructure to facilitate the deployment of any OP incentives. Our above multisig will interact utilize the Angle Merkl protocol to distribute the OP incentives—hence, before flowing to liquidity providers, the OP will be sent to the Angle Protocol Distributer address on Optimism: 0x3Ef3D8bA38EBe18DB133cEc108f4D14CE00Dd9Ae Usage of the Uniswap protocol will involve interaction with core and peripheral Uniswap v3 contracts on Optimism: Contract Name Contract Address UniswapV3Factory 0x1F98431c8aD98523631AE4a59f267346ea31F984 UniversalRouter 0x3fC91A3afd70395Cd496C647d5a6CC9D4B2b7FAD ProxyAdmin 0xB753548F6E010e7e680BA186F9Ca1BdAB2E90cf2 TickLens 0xbfd8137f7d1516D3ea5cA83523914859ec47F573 NFTDescriptor 0x42B24A95702b9986e82d421cC3568932790A48Ec NonfungibleTokenPositionDescriptor 0x91ae842A5Ffd8d12023116943e72A606179294f3 Descriptor proxy 0xEe6A57eC80ea46401049E92587E52f5Ec1c24785 NonfungiblePositionManager 0xC36442b4a4522E871399CD717aBDD847Ab11FE88 V3Migrator 0xA5644E29708357803b5A882D272c41cC0dF92B34 v3StakerAddress 0xe34139463bA50bD61336E0c446Bd8C0867c6fE65 QuoterV2 0x61fFE014bA17989E743c5F6cB21bF9697530B21e SwapRouter02 0x68b3465833fb72A70ecDF485E0e4C7bD8665Fc45 Permit2 0x000000000022D473030F116dDEE9F6B43aC78BA3 Multicall 0x732f5baac411e427d130fed03c2e82a3e0d64d35 LimitOrderRegistry 0x54dF9e11c7933a9cA3BD1E540B63dA15edAe40bf

# Metrics improved by OP incentives

- **Select the metric specified in the mission request:** (Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol
- **Fill out your metric objective:** TVL increase by 10M

# Budget and Plan

- **Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions:** Size request and Justification For execution of this plan, we request a budget of 180K OP. Uniswap users on OP are considerable and bring in a lot of activity. One of the primary goals will be to create deep liquidity pools in order to facilitate low slippage trades. Majority of the grant will be used to incentivise LP deposits of Yield Bearing Assets. Uniswap TVL on OP is already 100M+, to continue our growth trajectory we calculate this request is ideal for our LP incentive plans. Roadmap, Distribution, and Timeline Stage 1: Shortlisting assets out of whitelisted assets from wstETH, rETH, cbETH, sfrxETH, USDM, USDY, and bI0B1. Ideally 3-4 assets will be chosen for incentivization but this can vary. Stage 2: Described more in detail in the graph below, but with intention to adjust further incentives based on interest in a specific asset. Sustainability Uniswap v3 has shown to do very well at sustaining TVL capture after emissions end and we will continue to analyze and review the landscape and stickiness after incentives stop. Additional Accountability All wallets and associated addresses above are listed.

# Optimism relationship

- **Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions:** Problem Solved The growing adoption of LRTs across Defi has created a need for efficient and deep liquidity pools that minimize slippage and provide low-fee trading experiences. However, existing solutions may not offer the same level of trust, infrastructure, and liquidity efficiency as more established platforms. The lack of deep liquidity for LRTs poses challenges for traders and liquidity providers, limiting their ability to effectively restake, swap, and manage assets on-chain. Uniswap, as the original and most trusted DEX, is uniquely positioned to solve these challenges by leveraging its existing infrastructure and community to provide secure and efficient trading of LRTs on Optimism. Value Proposition Uniswap’s v3 model, with its at the time groundbreaking concentrated liquidity, has already established itself as a pioneer in the DEX space, offering users unparalleled efficiency and control over liquidity provisioning. As Uniswap prepares for the upcoming launch of v4, which promises even more innovative features, the protocol will continue to innovate the market and expand its use cases within DeFi. By incentivizing LRT liquidity on Optimism, Uniswap will not only attract new liquidity providers and traders but also strengthen Optimism’s role as a go-to layer 2 solution for restaked assets. Growth Potential With v4 around the corner, there will be countless new opportunities for the protocol to become more interwoven with the community. Additionally, with this specific LRT grant, a new group of defi users will be increased users to the leading DEX in defi. Commitment to Optimism Optimism was one of the first chains Uniswap launched on, and with the recent creation of the Uniswap Ecosystem Incentives Initiative, we are focusing more and more time on the DAO. Future development and resources will also be allocated to the community. Deployment Status On Optimism and other networks

# External Contributions:

- **Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:** No
- **Contributions from non-team members:** Representatives from the Uniswap DAO created the application and will manage the complete process of incentive distribution. PGov and Arana Digital are members of the metagovernance team and combined with Alphagrowth form the ecosystem incentives initiative.

# Compliance and Policies

- **Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:** yes
- **Confirmation of understanding grant policies:** yes
- **KYC information requirement:** yes
- **Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:** yes

# Milestones

- **Critical milestones for project execution:**     - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': 'Select 4 YBA to incentivize', 'source_of_truth': 'Uniswap Forum Post', 'op_amount': 'Merkl/Dune', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 27', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Select 4 YBA to incentivize', 'source_of_truth': 'Uniswap Forum Post', 'op_amount': 'Merkl/Dune', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Critical', 'op_tokens_request': 'Cycle 27', 'cycle': 'Critical', 'completed': 'Cycle 27', 'title': 'Select 4 YBA to incentivize', 'source_of_truth': 'Uniswap Forum Post', 'op_amount': 'Merkl/Dune', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
    - {'milestone_type': 'Cycle 27', 'op_tokens_request': 'Critical', 'cycle': 'Cycle 27', 'completed': 'Critical', 'title': 'Select 4 YBA to incentivize', 'source_of_truth': 'Uniswap Forum Post', 'op_amount': 'Merkl/Dune', 'op_deployment_date': 'N/A', 'incentives_due_date': 'N/A'}
