# Renzo Optimism Season 6 Mission Request - Optimism as base for LRTs

**Project URL:** [Link](https://app.charmverse.io/op-grants/renzo-optimism-season-6-mission-request-optimism-as-base-for-lrts-10206774269051233)

**Create your profile, add projects, and apply for Grant.**

Select a project 

**Email:**



**Telegram:**

kratik@renzoprotocol.com 

**X handle:**

x.com/kratikl_ 

**Discord/Discourse/Community:**

gov.renzo.com 

**Demo:**

app.renzoprotocol.com 

**Other:**

N 

**OP request Locked:**

0

**OP request for User Incentives:**

120000

**L2 Recipient Address:**

 0xdBdfd5b04fc3a19C40f2B12F6Ca29Bd772CCB822 

**Please briefly explain how we will be able to confirm that the OP has been spent:**

if the OP is not in the multisig above it has been spent 

**If this is a resubmission from a declined Application, please provide the link to the previous Application, and briefly explain the main areas of improvement. If not please write (N/A)**



**Do you have a code audit for your project?**



**Please briefly answer all project details questions**

Brief description of the project and what it aims to achieve:
Renzo is a strategy manager and liquid restaking token provider for both EigenLayer and Symbiotic. Renzo's $ezETH and $pzETH serve as the interface to the EigenLayer and Symbiotic ecosystems, respectively. The mission of $ezETH and $pzETH is to secure Actively Validated Services and generate both staking and restaking rewards. https://docs.renzoprotocol.com/docs Success potential:
(Explain why your project is likely to succeed. Consider market demand, technical feasibility, and your team's ability to execute)
Renzo was first launched as an LRT on EigenLayer  just over 7 months ago. In that time, Renzo has received billions of dollars in TVL, integrated with over 130 DeFi protocols, and has a presence on eight Ethereum rollups. Renzo recently deployed to Optimism, and as this is a new opportunity, there is big potential for Optimism to gain restaking TVL share. Mission alignment:
Renzo is one of the largest LRT providers across the industry in key metrics such as TVL and active users, the Renzo team is committed to hitting north star metrics for this Mission Request. Novelty:
(Highlight what makes your project unique or innovative.)
Renzo makes restaking ez for users. It abstracts away node operation, strategy management, and smart contract interfacing to simplify the restaking process, and makes the funds locked up in restaking liquid in ERC-20 form. Will the project be open source?
Yes Free or fee-based for end users?
Users mint ezETH, the Renzo liquid restaking token for the EigenLayer ecosystem for no fee. Users pay a small performance-based fee on the staking and restaking rewards generated by Renzo. Is it composable with other projects on Optimism? How?
As an ERC-20 token, Renzo’s ezETH is fully composable with DeFi integrations and many of the other projects on Optimism. ezETH is particularly compatible with DEXs and lending protocols.

**Please briefly answer all market analysis questions**

Competitors and differentiation
The EigenLayer restaking ecosystem has 6 prominent liquid restaking protocols, Renzo included. Of these 6, Renzo secures the most AVSs and has a strong history of leading in TVL on Ethereum L2s. Current user base and estimation method
Renzo’s ezETH has over 20,000 holders and $2B in TVL on Ethereum mainnet.
https://etherscan.io/token/0xbf5495efe5db9ce00f80364c8b423567e58d2110

**Please briefly answer all grant's impact questions**

Steps to increase user interaction
40% that is immediately unlocked will go to key integrations that help propel our north star metric of TVL growth, namely increasing depth on Velodrome (similar to our strategy with SuperFest) and further incentivizing lending protocols like Silo, Sturdy, Gearbox, and Compound. Target audience characteristics
Renzo aims to target users who want to be involved in restaking rewards, but don’t want to have their liquidity locked up. Renzo’s ezETH is a liquid restaking token that allows users to participate in DeFi while still receiving staking and restaking rewards. User interaction with Optimism
Users will be interacting with Optimism on key integrations for ezETH where we will choose to place incentives. Competitors on Optimism
The only competitor LRT present on Optimism is rsETH. rsETH currently has <$1m in TVL.

**Full list of the project’s labeled contracts:**

Contract address: 0x2416092f143378750bb29b79eD961ab195CcEea5

**Select the metric specified in the mission request**

(Intent 3 Growth) TVL in grantee’s protocol

**Fill out your metric objective**

$22M TVL -  doubling our current TVL on OP Mainnet, putting OP in the top 5 of chains we support within two months 

**Please briefly answer all budget and plan questions**

Size of request and justification
As the largest LRT in terms of users and TVL on the Superchain (including OP Mainnet), we humbly request the max allocation of 120k $OP to continue to specifically prioritize OP Mainnet with integration and Business Development efforts and development resources. Plan for accomplishing the project (roadmap)
We will use the initial 40% of OP as described above and below, and then with the completion of our subsequent milestones will apply the remaining allocation across key integrations on OP Mainnet that we know will drive TVL growth. OP tokens distribution (percentages and initiatives)
100% of tokens will be distributed to active participants who engage with Renzo Protocol and its derivative LRTs Token distribution timeline
40% that is immediately unlocked will go to key integrations that help propel our north star metric of TVL growth, namely increasing depth on Velodrome (similar to our strategy with SuperFest) and further incentivizing lending protocols like Silo, Sturdy, Gearbox, and Compound. Sustainability post-incentives
Since deploying ezETH to OP Mainnet we’ve doubled our TVL in the first weeks of OP SuperFest and have actively engaged with partners and dapps where we’ve had significant success on other chains to also deploy to OP Mainnet (Silo, Sturdy, Gearbox, etc).

**Please briefly answer all Optimism relationship questions**

Problem solved for Optimism
Ethereum restaking is a new and growing initiative, attracting over 11-figures in TVL in the past year. Renzo makes it ez for users to participate in this, and Renzo’s liquid restaking makes it feasible for users to both participate in restaking and participate in Optimism’s chain. Without liquid restaking, users must bridge to mainnet to lock up funds for restaking, but Renzo makes this unnecessary. Value proposition
Users will stay on Optimism and participate in the Optimism ecosystem instead of bridging away to other chains where they can participate in native restaking. Growth potential for Optimism
Restaking is a nascent industry, with increases of billions of dollars of TVL in recent months. Optimism has the potential to increase its TVL by more closely integrating restaking, and can prevent users from leaving the Optimism ecosystem by offering restaking solutions with Renzo. Commitment to building on Optimism
Renzo is all in on the Superchain thesis as demonstrated by our commitment and deployment across Mode, Base, Fraxtal, and OP Mainnet. Deployment status (exclusively on Optimism, on Optimism and other networks, not yet deployed, etc.):
Renzo is currently deployed on OP Mainnet, Ethereum mainnet, and a number of other Ethereum L2 chains.

**Use of Grant-as-a-service provider:**

No 

**Contributions from non-team members:**

No 

**Confirm understanding of clawback and milestone requirements:**

yes

**Confirmation of understanding grant policies:**

yes

**KYC information requirement:**

yes

**Certification of legal compliance for token distribution:**

yes

## Critical Milestones

- **Title:** Milestone 1 - $15M TVL Open; **Source of truth:** 0x2416092f143378750bb29b79eD961ab195CcEea5; **OP ammount:** ; **Milestone Type:** Critical; **OP tokens request:** ; **Cycle:** Cycle 25; **Completed:** ; **OP deployment date:** ; **Incentives due date:** 
- **Title:** Milestone 2 - $22M TVL Open; **Source of truth:** 0x2416092f143378750bb29b79eD961ab195CcEea5; **OP ammount:** ; **Milestone Type:** Critical; **OP tokens request:** ; **Cycle:** Cycle 25; **Completed:** ; **OP deployment date:** ; **Incentives due date:** 
